website/content/docs/configuration/storage/filesystem.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Filesystem
description: |-
  The Filesystem storage backend stores OpenBao's data on the filesystem using a
  standard directory structure. It can be used for durable single server
  situations, or to develop locally where durability is not critical.
---

# Filesystem storage backend

The Filesystem storage backend stores OpenBao's data on the filesystem using a
standard directory structure. It can be used for durable single server
situations, or to develop locally where durability is not critical.

- **No High Availability** – the Filesystem backend does not support high
  availability.

- **HashiCorp Supported** – the Filesystem backend is officially supported by
  HashiCorp.

```hcl
storage "file" {
  path = "/mnt/openbao/data"
}
```

Even though OpenBao's data is encrypted at rest, you should still take appropriate
measures to secure access to the filesystem.

## `file` parameters

- `path` `(string: <required>)` – The absolute path on disk to the directory
  where the data will be stored. If the directory does not exist, OpenBao will
  create it.

## `file` examples

This example shows the Filesystem storage backend being mounted at
`/mnt/openbao/data`.

```hcl
storage "file" {
  path = "/mnt/openbao/data"
}
```

Commit message:

Fix warnings about external storage (#959)
As reported by Branislav Masar on Matrix.

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

website/content/docs/configuration/storage/filesystem.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Filesystem
description: |-
  The Filesystem storage backend stores OpenBao's data on the filesystem using a
  standard directory structure. It can be used for durable single server
  situations, or to develop locally where durability is not critical.
---

# Filesystem storage backend

The Filesystem storage backend stores OpenBao's data on the filesystem using a
standard directory structure. It can be used for durable single server
situations, or to develop locally where durability is not critical.

:::warning

**No High Availability** – the Filesystem backend does not support high
availability. Only a single OpenBao node may use this data store.

:::


:::danger

**Not Production Recommended** – the Filesystem storage backend is not
recommended for production installations as it is not transactional and lacks
system-level file locking.

:::

```hcl
storage "file" {
  path = "/mnt/openbao/data"
}
```

Even though OpenBao's data is encrypted at rest, you should still take appropriate
measures to secure access to the filesystem.

## `file` parameters

- `path` `(string: <required>)` – The absolute path on disk to the directory
  where the data will be stored. If the directory does not exist, OpenBao will
  create it.

## `file` examples

This example shows the Filesystem storage backend being mounted at
`/mnt/openbao/data`.

```hcl
storage "file" {
  path = "/mnt/openbao/data"
}
```
