website/content/docs/configuration/storage/postgresql.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: PostgreSQL Storage
description: |-
  The PostgreSQL storage backend is used to persist OpenBao's data in a PostgreSQL
  server or cluster.
---

# PostgreSQL storage backend

:::warning

**Note**: The PostgreSQL Storage Backend is in early preview. Use at your own
risk. Some breaking changes may occur prior to GA.

:::

The PostgreSQL storage backend is used to persist OpenBao's data in a
[PostgreSQL][postgresql] server or cluster.

- **High Availability** – the PostgreSQL storage backend supports
  High Availability. Requires PostgreSQL 9.5 or later.

- **Community Supported** – the PostgreSQL storage backend is supported by the
  community. While it has undergone review by HashiCorp employees, they may not
  be as knowledgeable about the technology. If you encounter problems with them,
  you may be referred to the original author.

```hcl
storage "postgresql" {
  connection_url = "postgres://user123:secret123!@localhost:5432/openbao"
}
```

:::warning

**Note**: The PostgreSQL storage backend plugin will attempt to use SSL
when connecting to the database. If SSL is not enabled the `connection_url`
will need to be configured to disable SSL. See the documentation below
to disable SSL.

:::

## `postgresql` parameters

- `connection_url` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the connection string to
  use to authenticate and connect to PostgreSQL. The connection URL can also be
  set using the `BAO_PG_CONNECTION_URL` environment variable. A full list of supported
  parameters can be found in the [pgx library][pgxlib] and [PostgreSQL connection string][pg_conn_docs]
  documentation. For example connection string URLs, see the examples section below.

- `table` `(string: "openbao_kv_store")` – Specifies the name of the table in
  which to write OpenBao data. OpenBao will attempt to create it if missing and
  `skip_create_table=false` (the default).

- `max_idle_connections` `(int)` - Default not set. Sets the maximum number of
  connections in the idle connection pool. See
  [golang docs on SetMaxIdleConns][golang_setmaxidleconns] for more information.
  Requires OpenBao 1.2 or later.

- `max_parallel` `(string: "128")` – Specifies the maximum number of concurrent
  requests to PostgreSQL.

- `ha_enabled` `(string: "true|false")` – Default not enabled, requires
  PostgreSQL 9.5 or later.

- `ha_table` `(string: "openbao_ha_locks")` – Specifies the name of the table to use
  for storing High Availability information. OpenBao will attempt to create it
  if missing and `skip_create_table=false` (the default).

- `upsert_function` `(string: "openbao_kv_put")` – Specifies the name of the
  function to execute for upsert capabilities on PostgreSQL versions earlier
  than 9.5. This function must already exist. See above documentation.

- `skip_create_table` `(string: "true|false", default "false")` - When enabled,
  will not attempt to automatically create database tables if missing. Requires
  PostgreSQL 9.5 or later. Set to `true` if the database user does not have
  the required permissions; otherwise, OpenBao will fail to start.

## `postgresql` examples

### Custom SSL verification

This example shows connecting to a PostgreSQL cluster using full SSL
verification (recommended).

```hcl
storage "postgresql" {
  connection_url = "postgres://user:pass@localhost:5432/database?sslmode=verify-full"
}
```

To disable SSL verification (not recommended), replace `verify-full` with
`disable`:

```hcl
storage "postgresql" {
  connection_url = "postgres://user:pass@localhost:5432/database?sslmode=disable"
}
```

## Manually creating tables

OpenBao will attempt to automatically create tables compatible with PostgreSQL
9.5 or later. However, to manually create tables, use the following schemas:

```sql
CREATE TABLE openbao_kv_store (
  parent_path TEXT COLLATE "C" NOT NULL,
  path        TEXT COLLATE "C",
  key         TEXT COLLATE "C",
  value       BYTEA,
  CONSTRAINT pkey PRIMARY KEY (path, key)
);

CREATE INDEX parent_path_idx ON openbao_kv_store (parent_path);
```

Store for HAEnabled backend

```sql
CREATE TABLE openbao_ha_locks (
  ha_key                                      TEXT COLLATE "C" NOT NULL,
  ha_identity                                 TEXT COLLATE "C" NOT NULL,
  ha_value                                    TEXT COLLATE "C",
  valid_until                                 TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE NOT NULL,
  CONSTRAINT ha_key PRIMARY KEY (ha_key)
);
```

If you're using a version of PostgreSQL prior to 9.5, create the following function:

```sql
CREATE FUNCTION openbao_kv_put(_parent_path TEXT, _path TEXT, _key TEXT, _value BYTEA) RETURNS VOID AS
$$
BEGIN
    LOOP
        -- first try to update the key
        UPDATE openbao_kv_store
          SET (parent_path, path, key, value) = (_parent_path, _path, _key, _value)
          WHERE _path = path AND key = _key;
        IF found THEN
            RETURN;
        END IF;
        -- not there, so try to insert the key
        -- if someone else inserts the same key concurrently,
        -- we could get a unique-key failure
        BEGIN
            INSERT INTO openbao_kv_store (parent_path, path, key, value)
              VALUES (_parent_path, _path, _key, _value);
            RETURN;
        EXCEPTION WHEN unique_violation THEN
            -- Do nothing, and loop to try the UPDATE again.
        END;
    END LOOP;
END;
$$
LANGUAGE plpgsql;
```

[golang_setmaxidleconns]: https://golang.org/pkg/database/sql/#DB.SetMaxIdleConns
[postgresql]: https://www.postgresql.org/
[pgxlib]: https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/jackc/pgx/stdlib
[pg_conn_docs]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNSTRING

Commit message:

Fix warnings about external storage
As reported by Branislav Masar on Matrix.

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

website/content/docs/configuration/storage/postgresql.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: PostgreSQL Storage
description: |-
  The PostgreSQL storage backend is used to persist OpenBao's data in a PostgreSQL
  server or cluster.
---

# PostgreSQL storage backend

:::warning

**Note**: The PostgreSQL Storage Backend is in early preview. Use at your own
risk. Some breaking changes may occur prior to GA.

:::

The PostgreSQL storage backend is used to persist OpenBao's data in a
[PostgreSQL][postgresql] server or cluster.

:::tip

**High Availability** – the PostgreSQL storage backend supports High
Availability. Requires PostgreSQL 9.5 or later.

:::

:::tip

**Production Ready** – the PostgreSQL backend is considered production ready
and supports paginated lists and transactional storage.

:::

```hcl
storage "postgresql" {
  connection_url = "postgres://user123:secret123!@localhost:5432/openbao"
}
```

:::warning

**Note**: The PostgreSQL storage backend plugin will attempt to use SSL
when connecting to the database. If SSL is not enabled the `connection_url`
will need to be configured to disable SSL. See the documentation below
to disable SSL.

:::

## `postgresql` parameters

- `connection_url` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the connection string to
  use to authenticate and connect to PostgreSQL. The connection URL can also be
  set using the `BAO_PG_CONNECTION_URL` environment variable. A full list of supported
  parameters can be found in the [pgx library][pgxlib] and [PostgreSQL connection string][pg_conn_docs]
  documentation. For example connection string URLs, see the examples section below.

- `table` `(string: "openbao_kv_store")` – Specifies the name of the table in
  which to write OpenBao data. OpenBao will attempt to create it if missing and
  `skip_create_table=false` (the default).

- `max_idle_connections` `(int)` - Default not set. Sets the maximum number of
  connections in the idle connection pool. See
  [golang docs on SetMaxIdleConns][golang_setmaxidleconns] for more information.
  Requires OpenBao 1.2 or later.

- `max_parallel` `(string: "128")` – Specifies the maximum number of concurrent
  requests to PostgreSQL.

- `ha_enabled` `(string: "true|false")` – Default not enabled, requires
  PostgreSQL 9.5 or later.

- `ha_table` `(string: "openbao_ha_locks")` – Specifies the name of the table to use
  for storing High Availability information. OpenBao will attempt to create it
  if missing and `skip_create_table=false` (the default).

- `upsert_function` `(string: "openbao_kv_put")` – Specifies the name of the
  function to execute for upsert capabilities on PostgreSQL versions earlier
  than 9.5. This function must already exist. See above documentation.

- `skip_create_table` `(string: "true|false", default "false")` - When enabled,
  will not attempt to automatically create database tables if missing. Requires
  PostgreSQL 9.5 or later. Set to `true` if the database user does not have
  the required permissions; otherwise, OpenBao will fail to start.

## `postgresql` examples

### Custom SSL verification

This example shows connecting to a PostgreSQL cluster using full SSL
verification (recommended).

```hcl
storage "postgresql" {
  connection_url = "postgres://user:pass@localhost:5432/database?sslmode=verify-full"
}
```

To disable SSL verification (not recommended), replace `verify-full` with
`disable`:

```hcl
storage "postgresql" {
  connection_url = "postgres://user:pass@localhost:5432/database?sslmode=disable"
}
```

## Manually creating tables

OpenBao will attempt to automatically create tables compatible with PostgreSQL
9.5 or later. However, to manually create tables, use the following schemas:

```sql
CREATE TABLE openbao_kv_store (
  parent_path TEXT COLLATE "C" NOT NULL,
  path        TEXT COLLATE "C",
  key         TEXT COLLATE "C",
  value       BYTEA,
  CONSTRAINT pkey PRIMARY KEY (path, key)
);

CREATE INDEX parent_path_idx ON openbao_kv_store (parent_path);
```

Store for HAEnabled backend

```sql
CREATE TABLE openbao_ha_locks (
  ha_key                                      TEXT COLLATE "C" NOT NULL,
  ha_identity                                 TEXT COLLATE "C" NOT NULL,
  ha_value                                    TEXT COLLATE "C",
  valid_until                                 TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE NOT NULL,
  CONSTRAINT ha_key PRIMARY KEY (ha_key)
);
```

If you're using a version of PostgreSQL prior to 9.5, create the following function:

```sql
CREATE FUNCTION openbao_kv_put(_parent_path TEXT, _path TEXT, _key TEXT, _value BYTEA) RETURNS VOID AS
$$
BEGIN
    LOOP
        -- first try to update the key
        UPDATE openbao_kv_store
          SET (parent_path, path, key, value) = (_parent_path, _path, _key, _value)
          WHERE _path = path AND key = _key;
        IF found THEN
            RETURN;
        END IF;
        -- not there, so try to insert the key
        -- if someone else inserts the same key concurrently,
        -- we could get a unique-key failure
        BEGIN
            INSERT INTO openbao_kv_store (parent_path, path, key, value)
              VALUES (_parent_path, _path, _key, _value);
            RETURN;
        EXCEPTION WHEN unique_violation THEN
            -- Do nothing, and loop to try the UPDATE again.
        END;
    END LOOP;
END;
$$
LANGUAGE plpgsql;
```

[golang_setmaxidleconns]: https://golang.org/pkg/database/sql/#DB.SetMaxIdleConns
[postgresql]: https://www.postgresql.org/
[pgxlib]: https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/jackc/pgx/stdlib
[pg_conn_docs]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNSTRING
