website/content/docs/audit/file.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: File
description: The "file" audit device writes audit logs to a file.
---

# File audit device

The `file` audit device writes audit logs to a file. This is a very simple audit
device: it appends logs to a file.

The device does not currently assist with any log rotation. There are very
stable and feature-filled log rotation tools already, so we recommend using
existing tools.

Sending a `SIGHUP` to the OpenBao process will cause `file` audit devices to close
and re-open their underlying file, which can assist with log rotation needs.

## Examples

Enable at the default path:

```shell-session
$ bao audit enable file file_path=/var/log/openbao_audit.log
```

Enable at a different path. It is possible to enable multiple copies of an audit
device:

```shell-session
$ bao audit enable -path="openbao_audit_1" file file_path=/home/user/openbao_audit.log
```

Enable logs on stdout. This is useful when running in a container:

```shell-session
$ bao audit enable file file_path=stdout
```

## Configuration

Note the difference between `audit enable` command options and the `file` backend
configuration options. Use `bao audit enable -help` to see the command options.

The `file` audit device supports the common configuration options documented on
the [main Audit Devices page](/docs/audit#common-configuration-options), and
these device-specific options:

- `file_path` `(string: <required>)` - The path to where the audit log will be
  written. If a file already exists at the given path, the audit backend will
  append to it. There are some special keywords:

  - `stdout` writes the audit log to standard output

  - `discard` discards output, instead of writing it to a device (useful in testing scenarios)

- `mode` `(string: "0600")` - A string containing an octal number representing
  the bit pattern for the file mode, similar to `chmod`. Set to `"0000"` to
  prevent OpenBao from modifying the file mode.

  :::warning

  Note: Starting with OpenBao v2.4.0, any executable bits set in `mode` are
  zeroed automatically, for security purposes. For example, `mode = 777` will
  convert to `mode = 666`. Furthermore, `mode` values that are
  [irregular](https://pkg.go.dev/io/fs#FileMode.IsRegular) are rejected with an
  error.

  :::

## Log file rotation

To properly rotate OpenBao File Audit Device log files on BSD, Darwin, or Linux-based OpenBao servers, it is important that you configure your log rotation software to send the `bao` process a signal hang up / `SIGHUP` after each rotation of the log file.

Commit message:

Add http audit method (#1709)
* Add HTTP audit method

The http audit method allows sending requests to a remote HTTP server,
potentially authenticated by one or more headers.

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

* Add documentation on http audit device

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

* Add warnings against unsafe audit device creation

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

* Add changelog entry

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>
Signed-off-by: Geoff Wilson <geoff@gr-oss.io>

website/content/docs/audit/file.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: File
description: The "file" audit device writes audit logs to a file.
---

# File audit device

The `file` audit device writes audit logs to a file. This is a very simple audit
device: it appends logs to a file.

The device does not currently assist with any log rotation. There are very
stable and feature-filled log rotation tools already, so we recommend using
existing tools.

Sending a `SIGHUP` to the OpenBao process will cause `file` audit devices to close
and re-open their underlying file, which can assist with log rotation needs.

:::warning

The File audit device is sensitive as it can write to arbitrary files on the
instance. Be cautious when granting operators the ability to create this
device via the API when `unsafe_allow_api_audit_creation=true` is set.

Consider using [declarative audit configuration](/docs/configuration/audit/)
instead.

:::

## Examples

Enable at the default path:

```shell-session
$ bao audit enable file file_path=/var/log/openbao_audit.log
```

Enable at a different path. It is possible to enable multiple copies of an audit
device:

```shell-session
$ bao audit enable -path="openbao_audit_1" file file_path=/home/user/openbao_audit.log
```

Enable logs on stdout. This is useful when running in a container:

```shell-session
$ bao audit enable file file_path=stdout
```

## Configuration

Note the difference between `audit enable` command options and the `file` backend
configuration options. Use `bao audit enable -help` to see the command options.

The `file` audit device supports the common configuration options documented on
the [main Audit Devices page](/docs/audit#common-configuration-options), and
these device-specific options:

- `file_path` `(string: <required>)` - The path to where the audit log will be
  written. If a file already exists at the given path, the audit backend will
  append to it. There are some special keywords:

  - `stdout` writes the audit log to standard output

  - `discard` discards output, instead of writing it to a device (useful in testing scenarios)

- `mode` `(string: "0600")` - A string containing an octal number representing
  the bit pattern for the file mode, similar to `chmod`. Set to `"0000"` to
  prevent OpenBao from modifying the file mode.

  :::warning

  Note: Starting with OpenBao v2.4.0, any executable bits set in `mode` are
  zeroed automatically, for security purposes. For example, `mode = 777` will
  convert to `mode = 666`. Furthermore, `mode` values that are
  [irregular](https://pkg.go.dev/io/fs#FileMode.IsRegular) are rejected with an
  error.

  :::

## Log file rotation

To properly rotate OpenBao File Audit Device log files on BSD, Darwin, or Linux-based OpenBao servers, it is important that you configure your log rotation software to send the `bao` process a signal hang up / `SIGHUP` after each rotation of the log file.
