website/content/docs/audit/http.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: HTTP
description: The "http" audit device writes audit logs to a remote http server.
---

# HTTP audit device

The `http` audit device writes audit logs to a remote server over HTTP(S).
This is a very simple audit device: it does not attempt retry and is fully
synchronous with the request by default.

Sending a `SIGHUP` to the OpenBao process will cause `http` audit devices to
close any idle connections and re-open their connection to the HTTP server.

:::info

As audit logs are sensitive, take care to ensure you use a secure transport
(HTTPS) for all production use cases.

:::

## Examples

Enable at the default path:

```shell-session
$ bao audit enable http uri=https://my-log-server.local/ingress
```

Enable at a different path. It is possible to enable multiple copies of an audit
device:

```shell-session
$ bao audit enable -path="openbao_audit_1" http uri=https://my-second-log-server.local/ingress
```

## Configuration

Note the difference between `audit enable` command options and the `http` backend
configuration options. Use `bao audit enable -help` to see the command options.

The `http` audit device supports the common configuration options documented on
the [main Audit Devices page](/docs/audit#common-configuration-options), and
these device-specific options:

- `uri` `(string: <required>)` - The URI of the remote server where the audit
  logs will be written.

- `headers` `(string: "")` - A JSON object describing headers. Must take the
  shape `map[string][]string`, i.e., an object of headers, with each having
  one or more values. Headers without values will be ignored.

Both `uri` and any header values are passed through [`parseutil.ParsePath(...)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/go-secure-stdlib/parseutil),
allowing environment variables or files to be referenced.

Commit message:

Add warnings against unsafe audit device creation
Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

website/content/docs/audit/http.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: HTTP
description: The "http" audit device writes audit logs to a remote http server.
---

# HTTP audit device

The `http` audit device writes audit logs to a remote server over HTTP(S).
This is a very simple audit device: it does not attempt retry and is fully
synchronous with the request by default.

Sending a `SIGHUP` to the OpenBao process will cause `http` audit devices to
close any idle connections and re-open their connection to the HTTP server.

:::warning

The HTTP audit device is sensitive as it can connect to arbitrary servers.
Be cautious when granting operators the ability to create this device via
the API when `unsafe_allow_api_audit_creation=true` is set.

Consider using [declarative audit configuration](/docs/configuration/audit/)
instead.

:::

:::info

As audit logs are sensitive, take care to ensure you use a secure transport
(HTTPS) for all production use cases.

:::

## Examples

Enable at the default path:

```shell-session
$ bao audit enable http uri=https://my-log-server.local/ingress
```

Enable at a different path. It is possible to enable multiple copies of an audit
device:

```shell-session
$ bao audit enable -path="openbao_audit_1" http uri=https://my-second-log-server.local/ingress
```

## Configuration

Note the difference between `audit enable` command options and the `http` backend
configuration options. Use `bao audit enable -help` to see the command options.

The `http` audit device supports the common configuration options documented on
the [main Audit Devices page](/docs/audit#common-configuration-options), and
these device-specific options:

- `uri` `(string: <required>)` - The URI of the remote server where the audit
  logs will be written.

- `headers` `(string: "")` - A JSON object describing headers. Must take the
  shape `map[string][]string`, i.e., an object of headers, with each having
  one or more values. Headers without values will be ignored.

Both `uri` and any header values are passed through [`parseutil.ParsePath(...)`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/go-secure-stdlib/parseutil),
allowing environment variables or files to be referenced.
