website/content/docs/audit/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
description: Audit devices are mountable devices that log requests and responses in OpenBao.
---

# Audit devices

Audit devices are the components in OpenBao that collectively keep a detailed log of all
requests to OpenBao, and their responses. Because every operation with OpenBao is an API
request/response, when using a single audit device, the audit log contains _every_ interaction with
the OpenBao API, including errors - except for a few paths which do not go via the audit system.

The non-audited paths are:

```
sys/init
sys/seal-status
sys/seal
sys/unseal
sys/leader
sys/health
sys/storage/raft/bootstrap
sys/storage/raft/join
sys/internal/ui/feature-flags
```

and also, if the relevant listener configuration settings allow unauthenticated access:

```
sys/metrics
sys/pprof/*
sys/in-flight-req
```

## Enabling multiple devices

When multiple audit devices are enabled, OpenBao will attempt to send the audit
logs to all of them. This allows you to not only have redundant copies, but also
a way to check for data tampering in the logs themselves.

OpenBao considers a request to be successful if it can log to *at least* one
configured audit device (see: [Blocked Audit
Devices](index.mdx#blocked-audit-devices) section below).  Therefore in order
to build a complete picture of all audited actions, use the aggregate/union of
the logs from each audit device.

:::warning

Note: It is **highly recommended** that you configure OpenBao to use multiple audit
devices. Audit failures can prevent OpenBao from servicing requests, so it is
important to provide at least one other device.

:::

## Format

Each line in the audit log is a JSON object. The `type` field specifies what
type of object it is. Currently, only two types exist: `request` and `response`.
The line contains all of the information for any given request and response. By
default, all the sensitive information is first hashed before logging in the
audit logs.

## Sensitive information

The audit logs contain the full request and response objects for every
interaction with OpenBao. The request and response can be matched utilizing a
unique identifier assigned to each request.

Most strings contained within requests and responses are hashed with a salt using HMAC-SHA256. The purpose of the hash is so that secrets aren't in plaintext within your audit logs. However, you're still able to check the value of secrets by generating HMACs yourself; this can be done with the audit device's hash function and salt by using the `/sys/audit-hash` API endpoint (see the documentation for more details).

:::warning

Currently, only strings that come from JSON or returned in JSON are
HMAC'd. Other data types, like integers, booleans, and so on, are passed
through in plaintext. We recommend that all sensitive data be provided as string values
inside all JSON sent to OpenBao (i.e., that integer values are provided in quotes).

:::

While most strings are hashed, OpenBao does make some exceptions, such as auth and secrets, and users can enable additional exceptions using the [secrets enable](../commands/secrets/enable.mdx) command, and then tune it afterward.

**See also**:

* [secrets tune](../commands/secrets/tune.mdx)
* [auth enable](../commands/auth/enable.mdx)
* [auth tune](../commands/auth/tune.mdx)

## Enabling/Disabling audit devices

When an OpenBao server is first initialized, no auditing is enabled. Audit
devices must be enabled by a root user using `bao audit enable`.

When enabling an audit device, options can be passed to it to configure it.
For example, the command below enables the file audit device:

```shell-session
$ bao audit enable file file_path=/var/log/openbao_audit.log
```

In the command above, we passed the "file_path" parameter to specify the path
where the audit log will be written to. Each audit device has its own
set of parameters. See the documentation to the left for more details.

:::warning

Note: Enabling audit devices using the API (and, by proxy, using the CLI) allows
the operator to create files at arbitrary locations on the host system or send
network requests to arbitrary addresses, which may have unwanted effects. As a
result, the `unsafe_allow_api_audit_creation = true` option must be set in the
[server configuration](../configuration/index.mdx) starting with OpenBao v2.3.2.

In future releases (v2.4+), we will enable a new model where audit devices are
managed within the server configuration itself. This will become the
recommended way to configure audits, while support for legacy audit
configuration will be retained via the unsafe flag described above.

:::

:::warning

Note: Audit device configuration is replicated to all nodes within a cluster
by default.  Before enabling an audit device, ensure that all nodes within the
cluster(s) will be able to successfully log to the audit device to avoid OpenBao
being blocked from serving requests.
An audit device can be limited to only within the node's cluster with the [`local`](/api-docs/system/audit#local) parameter.

:::

When an audit device is disabled, it will stop receiving logs immediately.
The existing logs that it did store are untouched.

:::warning

Note: Once an audit device is disabled, you will no longer be able to HMAC values
for comparison with entries in the audit logs. This is true even if you re-enable
the audit device at the same path, as a new salt will be created for hashing.

:::

## Blocked audit devices

Audit device logs are critically important and ignoring auditing failures opens an avenue for attack. OpenBao will not respond to requests when no enabled audit devices can record them.

OpenBao can distinguish between two types of audit device failures.

- A blocking failure is one where an attempt to write to the audit device never completes. This is unlikely with a local disk device, but could occure with a network-based audit device.

- When multiple audit devices are enabled, if any of them fail in a non-blocking fashion, OpenBao requests can still complete successfully provided at least one audit device successfully writes the audit record. If any of the audit devices fail in a blocking fashion however, OpenBao requests will hang until the blocking is resolved.

In other words, OpenBao will not complete any requests until the blocked audit device can write.

## API

Audit devices also have a full HTTP API. Please see the [Audit device API
docs](/api-docs/system/audit) for more details.

## Common configuration options

- `elide_list_responses` `(bool: false)` - See [Eliding list response
  bodies](index.mdx#eliding-list-response-bodies) below.

- `format` `(string: "json")` - Allows selecting the output format. Valid values
  are `"json"` and `"jsonx"`, which formats the normal log entries as XML.

- `hmac_accessor` `(bool: true)` - If enabled, enables the hashing of token
  accessor.

- `log_raw` `(bool: false)` - If enabled, logs the security sensitive
  information without hashing, in the raw format.

- `prefix` `(string: "")` - A customizable string prefix to write before the
  actual log line.

  :::warning

  Note: The `prefix` option lets operators write semi-arbitrary content to the
  audit log. Starting with OpenBao v2.3.2, enabling new audit devices with this
  option is only supported if `allow_audit_log_prefixing = true` is set in the
  [server configuration](../configuration/index.mdx).

  :::

## Eliding list response bodies

Some OpenBao responses can be very large. Primarily, this affects list operations -
as OpenBao lacks pagination in its APIs, listing a very large collection can result
in a response that is tens of megabytes long. Some audit backends are unable to
process individual audit records of larger sizes.

The contents of the response for a list operation is often not very interesting;
most contain only a "keys" field, containing a list of IDs. Select API endpoints
additionally return a "key_info" field, a map from ID to some additional
information about the list entry - `identity/entity/id/` is an example of this.
Even in this case, the response to a list operation is usually less-confidential
or public information, for which having the full response in the audit logs is of
lesser importance.

The `elide_list_responses` audit option provides the flexibility to not write the
full list response data from the audit log, to mitigate the creation of very long
individual audit records.

When enabled, it affects only audit records of `type=response` and
`request.operation=list`. The values of `response.data.keys` and
`response.data.key_info` will be replaced with a simple integer, recording how
many entries were contained in the list (`keys`) or map (`key_info`) - therefore
even with this feature enabled, it is still possible to see how many items were
returned by a list operation.

This extra processing only affects the response data fields `keys` and `key_info`,
and only when they have the expected data types - in the event a list response
contains data outside of the usual conventions that apply to OpenBao list responses,
it will be left as is by this feature.

Here is an example of an audit record that has been processed by this feature
(formatted with extra whitespace, and with fields not relevant to the example
omitted):

```json
{
  "type": "response",
  "request": {
    "operation": "list"
  },
  "response": {
    "data": {
      "key_info": 4,
      "keys": 4
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Deprecate JSONX audit format (#2047)
* deprecation: jsonx deprecated as valid audit format

Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

* changelog added

Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

website/content/docs/audit/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
description: Audit devices are mountable devices that log requests and responses in OpenBao.
---

# Audit devices

Audit devices are the components in OpenBao that collectively keep a detailed log of all
requests to OpenBao, and their responses. Because every operation with OpenBao is an API
request/response, when using a single audit device, the audit log contains _every_ interaction with
the OpenBao API, including errors - except for a few paths which do not go via the audit system.

The non-audited paths are:

```
sys/init
sys/seal-status
sys/seal
sys/unseal
sys/leader
sys/health
sys/storage/raft/bootstrap
sys/storage/raft/join
sys/internal/ui/feature-flags
```

and also, if the relevant listener configuration settings allow unauthenticated access:

```
sys/metrics
sys/pprof/*
sys/in-flight-req
```

## Enabling multiple devices

When multiple audit devices are enabled, OpenBao will attempt to send the audit
logs to all of them. This allows you to not only have redundant copies, but also
a way to check for data tampering in the logs themselves.

OpenBao considers a request to be successful if it can log to *at least* one
configured audit device (see: [Blocked Audit
Devices](index.mdx#blocked-audit-devices) section below).  Therefore in order
to build a complete picture of all audited actions, use the aggregate/union of
the logs from each audit device.

:::warning

Note: It is **highly recommended** that you configure OpenBao to use multiple audit
devices. Audit failures can prevent OpenBao from servicing requests, so it is
important to provide at least one other device.

:::

## Format

Each line in the audit log is a JSON object. The `type` field specifies what
type of object it is. Currently, only two types exist: `request` and `response`.
The line contains all of the information for any given request and response. By
default, all the sensitive information is first hashed before logging in the
audit logs.

## Sensitive information

The audit logs contain the full request and response objects for every
interaction with OpenBao. The request and response can be matched utilizing a
unique identifier assigned to each request.

Most strings contained within requests and responses are hashed with a salt using HMAC-SHA256. The purpose of the hash is so that secrets aren't in plaintext within your audit logs. However, you're still able to check the value of secrets by generating HMACs yourself; this can be done with the audit device's hash function and salt by using the `/sys/audit-hash` API endpoint (see the documentation for more details).

:::warning

Currently, only strings that come from JSON or returned in JSON are
HMAC'd. Other data types, like integers, booleans, and so on, are passed
through in plaintext. We recommend that all sensitive data be provided as string values
inside all JSON sent to OpenBao (i.e., that integer values are provided in quotes).

:::

While most strings are hashed, OpenBao does make some exceptions, such as auth and secrets, and users can enable additional exceptions using the [secrets enable](../commands/secrets/enable.mdx) command, and then tune it afterward.

**See also**:

* [secrets tune](../commands/secrets/tune.mdx)
* [auth enable](../commands/auth/enable.mdx)
* [auth tune](../commands/auth/tune.mdx)

## Enabling/Disabling audit devices

When an OpenBao server is first initialized, no auditing is enabled. Audit
devices must be enabled by a root user using `bao audit enable`.

When enabling an audit device, options can be passed to it to configure it.
For example, the command below enables the file audit device:

```shell-session
$ bao audit enable file file_path=/var/log/openbao_audit.log
```

In the command above, we passed the "file_path" parameter to specify the path
where the audit log will be written to. Each audit device has its own
set of parameters. See the documentation to the left for more details.

:::warning

Note: Enabling audit devices using the API (and, by proxy, using the CLI) allows
the operator to create files at arbitrary locations on the host system or send
network requests to arbitrary addresses, which may have unwanted effects. As a
result, the `unsafe_allow_api_audit_creation = true` option must be set in the
[server configuration](../configuration/index.mdx) starting with OpenBao v2.3.2.

In future releases (v2.4+), we will enable a new model where audit devices are
managed within the server configuration itself. This will become the
recommended way to configure audits, while support for legacy audit
configuration will be retained via the unsafe flag described above.

:::

:::warning

Note: Audit device configuration is replicated to all nodes within a cluster
by default.  Before enabling an audit device, ensure that all nodes within the
cluster(s) will be able to successfully log to the audit device to avoid OpenBao
being blocked from serving requests.
An audit device can be limited to only within the node's cluster with the [`local`](/api-docs/system/audit#local) parameter.

:::

When an audit device is disabled, it will stop receiving logs immediately.
The existing logs that it did store are untouched.

:::warning

Note: Once an audit device is disabled, you will no longer be able to HMAC values
for comparison with entries in the audit logs. This is true even if you re-enable
the audit device at the same path, as a new salt will be created for hashing.

:::

## Blocked audit devices

Audit device logs are critically important and ignoring auditing failures opens an avenue for attack. OpenBao will not respond to requests when no enabled audit devices can record them.

OpenBao can distinguish between two types of audit device failures.

- A blocking failure is one where an attempt to write to the audit device never completes. This is unlikely with a local disk device, but could occure with a network-based audit device.

- When multiple audit devices are enabled, if any of them fail in a non-blocking fashion, OpenBao requests can still complete successfully provided at least one audit device successfully writes the audit record. If any of the audit devices fail in a blocking fashion however, OpenBao requests will hang until the blocking is resolved.

In other words, OpenBao will not complete any requests until the blocked audit device can write.

## API

Audit devices also have a full HTTP API. Please see the [Audit device API
docs](/api-docs/system/audit) for more details.

## Common configuration options

- `elide_list_responses` `(bool: false)` - See [Eliding list response
  bodies](index.mdx#eliding-list-response-bodies) below.

- `format` `(string: "json")` - Allows selecting the output format. The only
  valid value is `"json"`, which will be defaulted to if provided an empty
  string.

- `hmac_accessor` `(bool: true)` - If enabled, enables the hashing of token
  accessor.

- `log_raw` `(bool: false)` - If enabled, logs the security sensitive
  information without hashing, in the raw format.

- `prefix` `(string: "")` - A customizable string prefix to write before the
  actual log line.

  :::warning

  Note: The `prefix` option lets operators write semi-arbitrary content to the
  audit log. Starting with OpenBao v2.3.2, enabling new audit devices with this
  option is only supported if `allow_audit_log_prefixing = true` is set in the
  [server configuration](../configuration/index.mdx).

  :::

## Eliding list response bodies

Some OpenBao responses can be very large. Primarily, this affects list operations -
as OpenBao lacks pagination in its APIs, listing a very large collection can result
in a response that is tens of megabytes long. Some audit backends are unable to
process individual audit records of larger sizes.

The contents of the response for a list operation is often not very interesting;
most contain only a "keys" field, containing a list of IDs. Select API endpoints
additionally return a "key_info" field, a map from ID to some additional
information about the list entry - `identity/entity/id/` is an example of this.
Even in this case, the response to a list operation is usually less-confidential
or public information, for which having the full response in the audit logs is of
lesser importance.

The `elide_list_responses` audit option provides the flexibility to not write the
full list response data from the audit log, to mitigate the creation of very long
individual audit records.

When enabled, it affects only audit records of `type=response` and
`request.operation=list`. The values of `response.data.keys` and
`response.data.key_info` will be replaced with a simple integer, recording how
many entries were contained in the list (`keys`) or map (`key_info`) - therefore
even with this feature enabled, it is still possible to see how many items were
returned by a list operation.

This extra processing only affects the response data fields `keys` and `key_info`,
and only when they have the expected data types - in the event a list response
contains data outside of the usual conventions that apply to OpenBao list responses,
it will be left as is by this feature.

Here is an example of an audit record that has been processed by this feature
(formatted with extra whitespace, and with fields not relevant to the example
omitted):

```json
{
  "type": "response",
  "request": {
    "operation": "list"
  },
  "response": {
    "data": {
      "key_info": 4,
      "keys": 4
    }
  }
}
```
