website/content/docs/audit/socket.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Socket
description: The "socket" audit device writes audit writes to a TCP or UDP socket.
---

# Socket audit device

The `socket` audit device writes to a TCP, UDP, or UNIX socket.

:::warning

**Warning:** The loss of audit logs may occur when using the UDP socket audit type. Because UDP socket audit type is connectionless, meaning the UDP endpoint becomes unavailable, it’s possible that any number of audit logs written to it may get lost, even though the request will still succeed. OpenBao does not provide an indication for the loss of audit logs. Therefore, we recommend using your device in conjunction with a secondary “non-socket” audit device to ensure accuracy and to guarantee that audit logs will not be lost.

:::

:::warning

**Warning:** When using a TCP socket audit type, and connection loss to the socket occurs, a single audit entry may be omitted from the audit entry. The request from the TCP socket audit type will succeed despite the omission of the audit entry.

:::

## Enabling

Enable at the default path:

```shell-session
$ bao audit enable socket
```

Supply configuration parameters via K=V pairs:

```shell-session
$ bao audit enable socket address=127.0.0.1:9090 socket_type=tcp
```

## Configuration

The `socket` audit device supports the common configuration options documented on
the [main Audit Devices page](/docs/audit#common-configuration-options), and
these device-specific options:

- `address` `(string: "")` - The socket server address to use. Example
  `127.0.0.1:9090` or `/tmp/audit.sock`.

- `socket_type` `(string: "tcp")` - The socket type to use, any type compatible
  with <a href="https://golang.org/pkg/net/#Dial">net.Dial</a> is acceptable. It's
  important to note if TCP is used and the destination socket becomes unavailable
  OpenBao may become unresponsive per [Blocked Audit Devices](/docs/audit/#blocked-audit-devices).

- `write_timeout` `(string: 2s)` - The (deadline) time in seconds to allow writes to be completed over the socket.
  A zero value means that write attempts will *not* time out.

Commit message:

Add http audit method (#1709)
* Add HTTP audit method

The http audit method allows sending requests to a remote HTTP server,
potentially authenticated by one or more headers.

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

* Add documentation on http audit device

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

* Add warnings against unsafe audit device creation

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

* Add changelog entry

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>
Signed-off-by: Geoff Wilson <geoff@gr-oss.io>

website/content/docs/audit/socket.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Socket
description: The "socket" audit device writes audit writes to a TCP or UDP socket.
---

# Socket audit device

The `socket` audit device writes to a TCP, UDP, or UNIX socket.

:::warning

The socket audit device is sensitive as it can connect to arbitrary servers.
Be cautious when granting operators the ability to create this device via
the API when `unsafe_allow_api_audit_creation=true` is set.

Consider using [declarative audit configuration](/docs/configuration/audit/)
instead.

:::

:::warning

**Warning:** The loss of audit logs may occur when using the UDP socket audit type. Because UDP socket audit type is connectionless, meaning the UDP endpoint becomes unavailable, it’s possible that any number of audit logs written to it may get lost, even though the request will still succeed. OpenBao does not provide an indication for the loss of audit logs. Therefore, we recommend using your device in conjunction with a secondary “non-socket” audit device to ensure accuracy and to guarantee that audit logs will not be lost.

:::

:::warning

**Warning:** When using a TCP socket audit type, and connection loss to the socket occurs, a single audit entry may be omitted from the audit entry. The request from the TCP socket audit type will succeed despite the omission of the audit entry.

:::

## Enabling

Enable at the default path:

```shell-session
$ bao audit enable socket
```

Supply configuration parameters via K=V pairs:

```shell-session
$ bao audit enable socket address=127.0.0.1:9090 socket_type=tcp
```

## Configuration

The `socket` audit device supports the common configuration options documented on
the [main Audit Devices page](/docs/audit#common-configuration-options), and
these device-specific options:

- `address` `(string: "")` - The socket server address to use. Example
  `127.0.0.1:9090` or `/tmp/audit.sock`.

- `socket_type` `(string: "tcp")` - The socket type to use, any type compatible
  with <a href="https://golang.org/pkg/net/#Dial">net.Dial</a> is acceptable. It's
  important to note if TCP is used and the destination socket becomes unavailable
  OpenBao may become unresponsive per [Blocked Audit Devices](/docs/audit/#blocked-audit-devices).

- `write_timeout` `(string: 2s)` - The (deadline) time in seconds to allow writes to be completed over the socket.
  A zero value means that write attempts will *not* time out.
