---
title: OpenBao's Roadmap and Community Direction for 2025-2026
description: An explanation of OpenBao's proposed roadmap and direction for the community for 2025-2026.
slug: roadmap-2.0
authors: cipherboy
tags: [direction, community, collaboration]
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openbao/artwork/refs/heads/main/color/openbao-vertical-text-color.svg
---

As the summer of 2025 closed, OpenBao's Dev WG and TSC put together and
approved [a new technical direction and roadmap for 2025-2026](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/issues/1974).
But before we get into the details, I think is important to look back at
and celebrate what all we've accomplished this year:

1. Many technical initiatives have landed, from namespaces to transactional
   storage, to CEL support, and many smaller things in between.
2. Many continuing working groups and large technical initiates have been
   started, from the horizontal scalability WG, focused on read scalability;
   the UI WG, focused on a rewrite of our EmberJS Web UI into React; to the
   PKCS#11/KMS WG, focused on including external keys into OpenBao. Thank you
   to everyone who participates in these!
3. [Many, many contributions from many, many contributors](https://insights.linuxfoundation.org/project/openbao-2/contributors?timeRange=past365days&start=2024-10-20&end=2025-10-20&auth=success)!
   We welcomed:

   - 741 commits to [`main`](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/commits/main/?since=2024-09-30&until=2025-10-20),
   - 287 contributors in the past year,
   - 10 new committers, and
   - 4 new moderators!

   And like I say nearly every meeting, a special thanks to all net-new
   contributors! A fresh set of eyes brings wonders to a storied project,
   and often revisiting earlier design choices let us improve the experience.

And yes, not everything on [the 2024-2025 roadmap](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/issues/569)
was completed. Don't worry, you can still contribute items from it if you
want! But for a community just starting out, with its first formal direction
proposal, I think the response we got exceeded my wildest expectations.

<!-- truncate -->

---

Much like last year, [this roadmap](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/issues/1974)
opens with three major categories:

> 1. "**<i>O</i>perator Experience**": to enable easier or safer operation of OpenBao, through changes like profiles, break-glass and backup/restore procedures, and improved monitoring capabilities;
> 2. "**<i>S</i>calability**": to improve optimization and utilization of OpenBao in large, complex environments; and
> 3. "**<i>S</i>ustainability**": to ensure the long-term viability of the code base, react to changing secrets management directives, and stabilize our ability to maintain the project indefinitely.

Together, these spell _OSS_, reaffirming our commitment to an [open-source
project](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/blob/main/LICENSE) lead under
[open governance principals](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/blob/main/CHARTER.md).

Like last time, our roadmap features several items I'd especially like to
highlight:

1. Expanding **CEL Support** for non-ACL policies, in the profile system,
   and other plugins. This allows greater operator control over authentication
   and authorization. _Operator Experience_.
2. **Lazy loading of mounts, namespaces**, removing them from memory when no
   requests have accessed the path in a while. This would allow OpenBao to be
   substantially over-committed if workload allows. _Scalability_.
3. **KMIP Server for Transit** and **PKCS#11 client for Transit**, to allow
   consumption and safe usage of Transit-stored keys from other servers via
   KMIP and PKCS#11 protocols. _Sustainability_.
4. **Usage guides** and tutorials for various components. _Sustainability_.
5. **Versioned documentation** so that pre-release features do not show in
   the documentation by default and documentation for particular releases
   are maintained accordingly. _Sustainability_.

:::info
Interested in some of these features? We need your help!

React (:+1:) to issues on GitHub to show your support, help contribute use
cases or design documents, or submit code implementing these features! If you
need help getting started, [just reach out](https://github.com/openbao/#contact)!
:::
