CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to OpenBao

**Please note:** We take OpenBao's security and our users' trust very seriously.
If you believe you have found a security issue in OpenBao, please responsibly
disclose by contacting us at openbao-security@lists.openssf.org.

**First:** if you're unsure or afraid of _anything_, just ask or submit the
issue or pull request anyways. You won't be yelled at for giving it your best
effort. The worst that can happen is that you'll be politely asked to change
something. We appreciate any sort of contributions, and don't want a wall of
rules to get in the way of that.

That said, if you want to ensure that a pull request is likely to be merged,
talk to us! You can find out our thoughts and ensure that your contribution
won't clash or be obviated by OpenBao's normal direction. A great way to do this
is via the [GitHub Discussions][2].

## Community Roles

To view community roles or who holds those roles, see [MAINTAINERS.md](MAINTAINERS.md).

## Source-Available License Policy

This policy prohibits the utilization or copy from any source that is protected
by a source-available license agreement including Business Source License 1.1.
This specifically includes all source repository members under the Hashicorp GitHub
organization. It is the intention of this policy that when developing for feature
parity, bug fixes, CVEs, etc. in comparison to Hashicorp Vault that a clean room
methodology be used and all deliverables made original.

## Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO) Sign Off Policy

OpenBao adheres to the Linux Foundation's [DCO](https://developercertificate.org/).
All contributors are required to confirm their legal rights to the source they
contribute. This is done through a "DCO Sign Off". Note that this is different from
commit signing, such as using `PGP` or `gitsign`.

> [!CAUTION]
> Disable all AI agents while working on OpenBao! You cannot guarantee that you
> have the legal rights to submit the code generated by AI.

To add your sign-off, include the --signoff option in your `git commit` or `git rebase`
commands:

```
# Sign off a commit
git commit --signoff -m"my commit"

# Add a signoff to the last commit you made
git commit --amend --signoff

# Sign off every commit in your branch
git rebase --signoff master
```

This will add a line similar to the following at the end of your commit:

```
Signed-off-by: Alex Smith <alex@example.com>
```

Signing off a commit signifies your agreement to the terms outlined at
https://developercertificate.org/ for that specific contribution. Any contribution
that lacks a sign-off to this agreement will not be accepted by the OpenBao project.

## Technical Steering Committee (TSC) Members

| Member           | Email                     | GitHub                                     | Alternate                                       | Company/Organization | TSC Position |
|------------------|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|----------------------|--------------|
| Nathan Phelps    | naphelps@us.ibm.com       | [@naphelps](https://github.com/naphelps)   |                                                 | IBM                  | Member       |
| James Butcher    | james@iotechsys.com       |                                            | Brad Corrion (brad@iotechsys.com)               | IOTech Systems       | Member       |
| Julian Cassignol | jcassignol@wallix.com     |                                            | Dan Ghita (dghita@wallix.com)                   | Wallix               | Member       |
| Michael Hofer    | michael.hofer@adfinis.com | [@karras](https://github.com/karras)       | Andrii Fedorchuk (andrii.fedorchuk@adfinis.com) | Adfinis              | Member       |
| Alexander Scheel | ascheel@gitlab.com        | [@cipherboy](https://github.com/cipherboy) | Ken McDonald (kmcdonald@gitlab.com)             | GitLab               | Chair        |
| Klaus Kiefer     | klaus.kiefer@sap.com      | [@klaus-sap](https://github.com/klaus-sap) | Jonas Köhnen (j.koehnen@reply.de)               | SAP                  | Member       |

To view the process for joining the TSC, see [GOVERNANCE.md](GOVERNANCE.md) in
the root of this repository. That document is considered part of this document.

### OpenBao Working Groups

| Working Group                                                  | Chair       | Voting Members                                                                      |
|----------------------------------------------------------------|-------------| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Development Working Group](https://github.com/openbao/dev-wg) | Alex Scheel | Dan Ghita, Nathan Phelps, Jan Martens, Dave Dykstra, Jonas Köhnen, Andrii Fedorchuk |

## Issues

This section will cover what we're looking for in terms of reporting issues.

By addressing all the points we're looking for, it raises the chances we can
quickly merge or address your contributions.

### Reporting an Issue

* Make sure you test against the latest released version. It is possible we
  already fixed the bug you're experiencing. Even better is if you can test
  against the `development` branch, as the bugs are regularly fixed but new versions
  are only released every few months.

* Provide steps to reproduce the issue, and if possible include the expected
  results as well as the actual results. Please provide text, not screen shots!

* If you are seeing an internal OpenBao error (a status code of 5xx), please be
  sure to post relevant parts of (or the entire) OpenBao log, as often these
  errors are logged on the server but not reported to the user.

* If you experienced a panic, please create a [gist](https://gist.github.com)
  of the *entire* generated crash log for us to look at. Double check
  no sensitive items were in the log.

* Respond as promptly as possible to any questions made by the OpenBao
  team to your issue.

### Issue Lifecycle

1. The issue is reported.

2. The issue is verified and categorized by an OpenBao collaborator.
   Categorization is done via tags. For example, bugs are marked as "bugs".

3. Unless it is critical, the issue may be left for a period of time (sometimes
   many weeks), giving outside contributors -- maybe you!? -- a chance to
   address the issue.

4. The issue is addressed in a pull request or commit. The issue will be
   referenced in the commit message so that the code that fixes it is clearly
   linked.

5. The issue is closed.

6. Issues that are not reproducible and/or not gotten responses for a long time are
   stale issues. In order to provide faster responses and better engagement with
   the community, we strive to keep the issue tracker clean and the issue count
   low. In this regard, our current policy is to close stale issues after 30 days.
   Closed issues will still be indexed and available for future viewers. If users
   feel that the issue is still relevant, we encourage reopening them.

## Pull requests

When submitting a PR you should reference an existing issue. If no issue already exists,
please create one. This can be skipped for trivial PRs like fixing typos.

Creating an issue in advance of working on the PR can help to avoid duplication of effort,
e.g. maybe we know of existing related work. Or it may be that we can provide guidance
that will help with your approach.

Your pull request should have a description of what it accomplishes, how it does so,
and why you chose the approach you did.  PRs should include unit tests that validate
correctness and the existing tests must pass. Follow-up work to fix tests
does not need a fresh issue filed.

Someone will do a first pass review on your PR making sure it follows the guidelines
in this document. If it doesn't we'll mark the PR incomplete and ask you to follow
up on the missing requirements.

### Changelog Entries
Please include a file within your PR named `changelog/#.txt`, where `#` is your
pull request ID.  There are many examples under [changelog](changelog/), but
the general format is

````
```release-note:CATEGORY
COMPONENT: summary of change
```
````

CATEGORY is one of `security`, `change`, `feature`, `improvement`, or `bug`.
Your PR is almost certain to be one of `bug` or `improvement`, but don't
worry too much about getting it exactly right, we'll tell you if a change is
needed.

To determine the relevant component, consult [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) and pick
whichever one you see that seems the closest match.

You do not need to include the link at the end of the summary that appears in
CHANGELOG.md, those are generated automatically by the changelog-building
process.

### OpenBao UI

How you contribute to the UI depends on what you want to contribute. If that is
a new feature, please submit an informational issue first.  That issue
should include a short description of the proposed feature, the use case,
the approach you're taking, and the tests that would be written.  A mockup
is optional but encouraged.

Bug fixes are welcome in PRs but existing tests must pass and updated logic
should be handled in new tests.  You needn't submit an issue first to fix bugs.

Keep in mind that the UI should be consistent with other areas of OpenBao.
The UI should be user-centered, informative, and include edge cases and errors—
including accommodations for users who may not have permissions to view or
interact with your feature. If you are not comfortable with UI design, an OpenBao
designer can take a look at your work— just be aware that this might mean
it will add some time to the PR process.

Finally, in your code, try to avoid logic-heavy templates (when possible,
calculate values in the .js file instead of .hbs) and Ember anti-patterns.
And most of all, if you have any questions, please ask!

## Setting up Go to work on OpenBao

If you have never worked with Go before, you will have to complete the
following steps listed in the README, under the section [Developing OpenBao][1].

[1]: https://github.com/openbao/openbao#developing-openbao
[2]: https://github.com/openbao/openbao/discussions

Commit message:

Add more extensive warnings on AI agents (#2046)
This was discussed in the October TSC meeting.

See also: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oNqm4GXCsIZbcNHsIqft4kgciRcuwS9rrIRGXlMz1yg/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.52zbex718qh5

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to OpenBao

**Please note:** We take OpenBao's security and our users' trust very seriously.
If you believe you have found a security issue in OpenBao, please responsibly
disclose by contacting us at openbao-security@lists.openssf.org.

**First:** if you're unsure or afraid of _anything_, just ask or submit the
issue or pull request anyways. You won't be yelled at for giving it your best
effort. The worst that can happen is that you'll be politely asked to change
something. We appreciate any sort of contributions, and don't want a wall of
rules to get in the way of that.

That said, if you want to ensure that a pull request is likely to be merged,
talk to us! You can find out our thoughts and ensure that your contribution
won't clash or be obviated by OpenBao's normal direction. A great way to do this
is via the [GitHub Discussions][2].

## Community Roles

To view community roles or who holds those roles, see [MAINTAINERS.md](MAINTAINERS.md).

## Source-Available License Policy

This policy prohibits the utilization or copy from any source that is protected
by a source-available license agreement including Business Source License 1.1.
This specifically includes all source repository members under the Hashicorp GitHub
organization. It is the intention of this policy that when developing for feature
parity, bug fixes, CVEs, etc. in comparison to Hashicorp Vault that a clean room
methodology be used and all deliverables made original.

## Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO) Sign Off Policy

OpenBao adheres to the Linux Foundation's [DCO](https://developercertificate.org/).
All contributors are required to confirm their legal rights to the source they
contribute. This is done through a "DCO Sign Off". Note that this is different from
commit signing, such as using `PGP` or `gitsign`.

> [!CAUTION]
>
> Disable all generative AI agents while working on OpenBao!
>
> (This includes GitHub Copilot, Cursor, Claude Code, and others.)


> [!NOTE]
>
> By using generative AI agents, you cannot guarantee that you have the full
> legal rights required to submit the code generated by an AI. We require you
> use the [DCO ownership](https://developercertificate.org/) sign-off, which
> you cannot do with generative AI agents trained on third-party code.
>
> Use of AI in other capacity (search, discussion, &c) remains fine.
>
> Please do not submit such pull-requests to this project. Thanks!

If you have met the above requirements, you can add your sign-off by including
the --signoff option in your `git commit` or `git rebase` commands:

```
# Sign off a commit
git commit --signoff -m"my commit"

# Add a signoff to the last commit you made
git commit --amend --signoff

# Sign off every commit in your branch
git rebase --signoff master
```

This will add a line similar to the following at the end of your commit:

```
Signed-off-by: Alex Smith <alex@example.com>
```

Signing off a commit signifies your agreement to the terms outlined at
https://developercertificate.org/ for that specific contribution. Any contribution
that lacks a sign-off to this agreement will not be accepted by the OpenBao project.

## Technical Steering Committee (TSC) Members

| Member           | Email                     | GitHub                                     | Alternate                                       | Company/Organization | TSC Position |
|------------------|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|----------------------|--------------|
| Nathan Phelps    | naphelps@us.ibm.com       | [@naphelps](https://github.com/naphelps)   |                                                 | IBM                  | Member       |
| James Butcher    | james@iotechsys.com       |                                            | Brad Corrion (brad@iotechsys.com)               | IOTech Systems       | Member       |
| Julian Cassignol | jcassignol@wallix.com     |                                            | Dan Ghita (dghita@wallix.com)                   | Wallix               | Member       |
| Michael Hofer    | michael.hofer@adfinis.com | [@karras](https://github.com/karras)       | Andrii Fedorchuk (andrii.fedorchuk@adfinis.com) | Adfinis              | Member       |
| Alexander Scheel | ascheel@gitlab.com        | [@cipherboy](https://github.com/cipherboy) | Ken McDonald (kmcdonald@gitlab.com)             | GitLab               | Chair        |
| Klaus Kiefer     | klaus.kiefer@sap.com      | [@klaus-sap](https://github.com/klaus-sap) | Jonas Köhnen (j.koehnen@reply.de)               | SAP                  | Member       |

To view the process for joining the TSC, see [GOVERNANCE.md](GOVERNANCE.md) in
the root of this repository. That document is considered part of this document.

### OpenBao Working Groups

| Working Group                                                  | Chair       | Voting Members                                                                      |
|----------------------------------------------------------------|-------------| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Development Working Group](https://github.com/openbao/dev-wg) | Alex Scheel | Dan Ghita, Nathan Phelps, Jan Martens, Dave Dykstra, Jonas Köhnen, Andrii Fedorchuk |

## Issues

This section will cover what we're looking for in terms of reporting issues.

By addressing all the points we're looking for, it raises the chances we can
quickly merge or address your contributions.

### Reporting an Issue

* Make sure you test against the latest released version. It is possible we
  already fixed the bug you're experiencing. Even better is if you can test
  against the `development` branch, as the bugs are regularly fixed but new versions
  are only released every few months.

* Provide steps to reproduce the issue, and if possible include the expected
  results as well as the actual results. Please provide text, not screen shots!

* If you are seeing an internal OpenBao error (a status code of 5xx), please be
  sure to post relevant parts of (or the entire) OpenBao log, as often these
  errors are logged on the server but not reported to the user.

* If you experienced a panic, please create a [gist](https://gist.github.com)
  of the *entire* generated crash log for us to look at. Double check
  no sensitive items were in the log.

* Respond as promptly as possible to any questions made by the OpenBao
  team to your issue.

### Issue Lifecycle

1. The issue is reported.

2. The issue is verified and categorized by an OpenBao collaborator.
   Categorization is done via tags. For example, bugs are marked as "bugs".

3. Unless it is critical, the issue may be left for a period of time (sometimes
   many weeks), giving outside contributors -- maybe you!? -- a chance to
   address the issue.

4. The issue is addressed in a pull request or commit. The issue will be
   referenced in the commit message so that the code that fixes it is clearly
   linked.

5. The issue is closed.

6. Issues that are not reproducible and/or not gotten responses for a long time are
   stale issues. In order to provide faster responses and better engagement with
   the community, we strive to keep the issue tracker clean and the issue count
   low. In this regard, our current policy is to close stale issues after 30 days.
   Closed issues will still be indexed and available for future viewers. If users
   feel that the issue is still relevant, we encourage reopening them.

## Pull requests

When submitting a PR you should reference an existing issue. If no issue already exists,
please create one. This can be skipped for trivial PRs like fixing typos.

Creating an issue in advance of working on the PR can help to avoid duplication of effort,
e.g. maybe we know of existing related work. Or it may be that we can provide guidance
that will help with your approach.

Your pull request should have a description of what it accomplishes, how it does so,
and why you chose the approach you did.  PRs should include unit tests that validate
correctness and the existing tests must pass. Follow-up work to fix tests
does not need a fresh issue filed.

Someone will do a first pass review on your PR making sure it follows the guidelines
in this document. If it doesn't we'll mark the PR incomplete and ask you to follow
up on the missing requirements.

### Changelog Entries
Please include a file within your PR named `changelog/#.txt`, where `#` is your
pull request ID.  There are many examples under [changelog](changelog/), but
the general format is

````
```release-note:CATEGORY
COMPONENT: summary of change
```
````

CATEGORY is one of `security`, `change`, `feature`, `improvement`, or `bug`.
Your PR is almost certain to be one of `bug` or `improvement`, but don't
worry too much about getting it exactly right, we'll tell you if a change is
needed.

To determine the relevant component, consult [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) and pick
whichever one you see that seems the closest match.

You do not need to include the link at the end of the summary that appears in
CHANGELOG.md, those are generated automatically by the changelog-building
process.

### OpenBao UI

How you contribute to the UI depends on what you want to contribute. If that is
a new feature, please submit an informational issue first.  That issue
should include a short description of the proposed feature, the use case,
the approach you're taking, and the tests that would be written.  A mockup
is optional but encouraged.

Bug fixes are welcome in PRs but existing tests must pass and updated logic
should be handled in new tests.  You needn't submit an issue first to fix bugs.

Keep in mind that the UI should be consistent with other areas of OpenBao.
The UI should be user-centered, informative, and include edge cases and errors—
including accommodations for users who may not have permissions to view or
interact with your feature. If you are not comfortable with UI design, an OpenBao
designer can take a look at your work— just be aware that this might mean
it will add some time to the PR process.

Finally, in your code, try to avoid logic-heavy templates (when possible,
calculate values in the .js file instead of .hbs) and Ember anti-patterns.
And most of all, if you have any questions, please ask!

## Setting up Go to work on OpenBao

If you have never worked with Go before, you will have to complete the
following steps listed in the README, under the section [Developing OpenBao][1].

[1]: https://github.com/openbao/openbao#developing-openbao
[2]: https://github.com/openbao/openbao/discussions
