website/content/api-docs/system/init.mdx, before:

---
description: The `/sys/init` endpoint is used to initialize a new OpenBao.
---

# `/sys/init`

The `/sys/init` endpoint is used to initialize a new OpenBao.

## Read initialization status

This endpoint returns the initialization status of OpenBao.

| Method | Path        |
| :----- | :---------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/init` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/init
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "initialized": true
}
```

## Start initialization

This endpoint initializes a new OpenBao. The OpenBao must not have been previously
initialized. The recovery options, as well as the stored shares option, are only
available when using [Auto Unseal](/docs/concepts/seal#auto-unseal).

| Method | Path        |
| :----- | :---------- |
| `POST`  | `/sys/init` |

### Parameters

- `pgp_keys` `(array<string>: nil)` – Specifies an array of PGP public keys used
  to encrypt the output unseal keys. Ordering is preserved. The keys must be
  base64-encoded from their original binary representation. The size of this
  array must be the same as `secret_shares`.

- `root_token_pgp_key` `(string: "")` – Specifies a PGP public key used to
  encrypt the initial root token. The key must be base64-encoded from its
  original binary representation.

- `secret_shares` `(int: <required>)` – Specifies the number of shares to
  split the root key into.

- `secret_threshold` `(int: <required>)` – Specifies the number of shares
  required to reconstruct the root key. This must be less than or equal
  `secret_shares`.

Additionally, the following options are only supported using Auto Unseal:

- `stored_shares` `(int: <required>)` – Specifies the number of shares that
  should be encrypted by the HSM and stored for auto-unsealing. Currently must
  be the same as `secret_shares`.

- `recovery_shares` `(int: 0)` – Specifies the number of shares to
  split the recovery key into. This is only available when using Auto Unseal.

- `recovery_threshold` `(int: 0)` – Specifies the number of shares
  required to reconstruct the recovery key. This must be less than or equal to
  `recovery_shares`. This is only available when using Auto Unseal.

- `recovery_pgp_keys` `(array<string>: nil)` – Specifies an array of PGP public
  keys used to encrypt the output recovery keys. Ordering is preserved. The keys
  must be base64-encoded from their original binary representation. The size of
  this array must be the same as `recovery_shares`. This is only available when using Auto Unseal.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "secret_shares": 10,
  "secret_threshold": 5
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/init
```

### Sample response

A JSON-encoded object including the (possibly encrypted, if `pgp_keys` was
provided) root keys, base 64 encoded root keys and initial root token:

```json
{
  "keys": ["one", "two", "three"],
  "keys_base64": ["cR9No5cBC", "F3VLrkOo", "zIDSZNGv"],
  "root_token": "foo"
}
```

**Warning:** Please be reminded that recovery keys are used as an 
authentication flow for rekeying and regeneration of root credentials and cannot 
be used to unseal OpenBao in the case of the unavailability of the seal mechanism.
Refer to the full warning in the documentation for 
[Auto Unseal](/docs/concepts/seal#auto-unseal).

Commit message:

Add authenticated rotation endpoints documentation (#1622)
* docs: added documentation for rotation and refactored mentions of rekeying

Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

* cr: addressed comments on the pr

Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

* cr: another round of fixes

Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

* refactor: added info panel to newly introduced endpoints in v2.4.0

Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

website/content/api-docs/system/init.mdx, after:

---
description: The `/sys/init` endpoint is used to initialize a new OpenBao.
---

# `/sys/init`

The `/sys/init` endpoint is used to initialize a new OpenBao instance. When using
an auto-unseal mechanism, it is possible to initialize OpenBao (since `v2.4.0`)
with `recovery_shares` config parameter set as `0`, resulting in the recovery keys
not being generated at initialization time, and thus will not be returned back to
the operator. The system will function as if it has no recovery keys. To create
recovery keys the operator is required to to manually call [init](/api-docs/system/rotate/init)
endpoint, which will return working keys immediately. This is not applicable for
Shamir's based unsealing. Recovery mode will not function until such keys are
created, and the operator will be unable to use the API to unseal a manually sealed
auto-unseal instance. Only restarting an instance will allow a manually sealed
instance to unseal again. The root key is rotatable through the `sudo`-protected
(`sys/rotate/root`) endpoint.

## Read initialization status

This endpoint returns the initialization status of OpenBao.

| Method | Path        |
| :----- | :---------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/init` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/init
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "initialized": true
}
```

## Start initialization

This endpoint initializes a new OpenBao. The OpenBao must not have been previously
initialized. The recovery options, as well as the stored shares option, are only
available when using [Auto Unseal](/docs/concepts/seal#auto-unseal).

| Method | Path        |
| :----- | :---------- |
| `POST`  | `/sys/init` |

### Parameters

- `pgp_keys` `(array<string>: nil)` – Specifies an array of PGP public keys used
  to encrypt the output unseal keys. Ordering is preserved. The keys must be
  base64-encoded from their original binary representation. The size of this
  array must be the same as `secret_shares`.

- `root_token_pgp_key` `(string: "")` – Specifies a PGP public key used to
  encrypt the initial root token. The key must be base64-encoded from its
  original binary representation.

- `secret_shares` `(int: <required>)` – Specifies the number of shares to
  split the root key into.

- `secret_threshold` `(int: <required>)` – Specifies the number of shares
  required to reconstruct the root key. This must be less than or equal to
  `secret_shares`.

Additionally, the following options are only supported using Auto Unseal:

- `stored_shares` `(int: <required>)` – Specifies the number of shares that
  should be encrypted by the HSM and stored for auto-unsealing. Currently must
  be the same as `secret_shares`.

- `recovery_shares` `(int: 0)` – Specifies the number of shares to
  split the recovery key into. This is only available when using Auto Unseal.

- `recovery_threshold` `(int: 0)` – Specifies the number of shares
  required to reconstruct the recovery key. This must be less than or equal to
  `recovery_shares`. This is only available when using Auto Unseal.

- `recovery_pgp_keys` `(array<string>: nil)` – Specifies an array of PGP public
  keys used to encrypt the output recovery keys. Ordering is preserved. The keys
  must be base64-encoded from their original binary representation. The size of
  this array must be the same as `recovery_shares`. This is only available when using Auto Unseal.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "secret_shares": 10,
  "secret_threshold": 5
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/init
```

### Sample response

A JSON-encoded object including the (possibly encrypted, if `pgp_keys` was
provided) root keys, base 64 encoded root keys and initial root token:

```json
{
  "keys": ["one", "two", "three"],
  "keys_base64": ["cR9No5cBC", "F3VLrkOo", "zIDSZNGv"],
  "root_token": "foo"
}
```

:::warning

Please be reminded that recovery keys are used as an authentication flow for
rotation and regeneration of root credentials and cannot be used to unseal
OpenBao in the case of the unavailability of the seal mechanism. Refer to
the full warning in the documentation for [Auto Unseal](/docs/concepts/seal#auto-unseal).

:::
