website/content/api-docs/system/plugins-catalog.mdx, before:

---
description: The `/sys/plugins/catalog` endpoint is used to manage plugins.
---

# `/sys/plugins/catalog`

The `/sys/plugins/catalog` endpoint is used to read, register, update, and
remove plugins in OpenBao's catalog. Plugins must be registered before use, and
once registered backends can use the plugin by querying the catalog.

## LIST plugins

This endpoint lists the plugins in the catalog by type.

| Method | Path                   |
| :----- | :--------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/plugins/catalog` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/plugins/catalog
```

### Sample response

```json
{
    "data": {
        "auth": [
            "custom-auth-plugin",
            "ldap"
        ],
        "database": [
            "cassandra-database-plugin",
            "mysql-database-plugin",
            "postgresql-database-plugin"
        ],
        "detailed": [
            {
                "builtin": true,
                "deprecation_status": "supported",
                "name": "ldap",
                "type": "auth",
                "version": "v1.14.8+builtin.openbao"
            },
            ...
            {
                "builtin": true,
                "deprecation_status": "supported",
                "name": "cassandra-database-plugin",
                "type": "database",
                "version": "v1.14.8+builtin.openbao"
            },
            ...
        ],
        "secret": [
            "transit"
        ]
    }
}
```

## LIST plugins

This endpoint lists the plugins in the catalog by type.

| Method | Path                            |
| :----- | :------------------------------ |
| `LIST` | `/sys/plugins/catalog/auth`     |
| `LIST` | `/sys/plugins/catalog/database` |
| `LIST` | `/sys/plugins/catalog/secret`   |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request LIST
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/plugins/catalog/auth
```

### Sample response

```json
{
    "data": {
        "keys": [
            "custom-auth-plugin",
            "ldap"
        ]
    }
}
```

## Register plugin

This endpoint registers a new plugin, or updates an existing one with the
supplied name.

- **`sudo` required** – This endpoint requires `sudo` capability in addition to
  any path-specific capabilities.

| Method | Path                               |
| :----- | :--------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/plugins/catalog/:type/:name` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the name for this plugin. The name
  is what is used to look up plugins in the catalog. This is part of the request
  URL.

- `type` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the type of this plugin. May be
  "auth", "database", or "secret".

- `version` `(string: "")` - Specifies the semantic version of this plugin.

- `sha256` `(string: <required>)` – This is the SHA256 sum of the plugin's
  binary. Before a plugin is run it's SHA will be checked against this value, if
  they do not match the plugin can not be run.

- `command` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the command used to execute the
  plugin. This is relative to the plugin directory. e.g. `"myplugin"`.

- `args` `(array: [])` – Specifies the arguments used to execute the plugin. If
  the arguments are provided here, the `command` parameter should only contain
  the named program. e.g. `"--my_flag=1"`.

- `env` `(array: [])` – Specifies the environment variables used during the
  execution of the plugin. Each entry is of the form "key=value". e.g
  `"FOO=BAR"`.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "sha256": "d130b9a0fbfddef9709d8ff92e5e6053ccd246b78632fc03b8548457026961e9",
  "command": "mysql-database-plugin"
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/plugins/catalog/secret/example-plugin
```

## Read plugin

This endpoint returns the configuration data for the plugin with the given name.

- **`sudo` required** – This endpoint requires `sudo` capability in addition to
  any path-specific capabilities.

| Method | Path                                                |
| :----- | :-------------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/plugins/catalog/:type/:name?version=:version` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the name of the plugin to retrieve.
  This is part of the request URL.

- `type` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the type of this plugin. May be
  "auth", "database", or "secret".

- `version` `(string: "")` – The semantic version of the plugin to read. Required
  if the plugin was registered with a version.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request GET \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/plugins/catalog/secret/example-plugin?version=v1.0.0
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "args": [],
    "builtin": false,
    "command": "/tmp/openbao-plugins/mysql-database-plugin",
    "name": "example-plugin",
    "sha256": "0TC5oPv93vlwnY/5Ll5gU8zSRreGMvwDuFSEVwJpYek=",
    "version": "v1.0.0"
  }
}
```

## Remove plugin from catalog

This endpoint removes the plugin with the given name.

- **`sudo` required** – This endpoint requires `sudo` capability in addition to
  any path-specific capabilities.

| Method   | Path                                                |
| :------- | :-------------------------------------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/sys/plugins/catalog/:type/:name?version=:version` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the name of the plugin to delete.
  This is part of the request URL.

- `type` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the type of this plugin. May be
  "auth", "database", or "secret".

- `version` `(string: "")` – Specifies the semantic version of the plugin
  to delete.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/plugins/catalog/secret/example-plugin?version=v1.0.0
```

Commit message:

Auto register plugins (#2132)
* Allow auto-registration of plugins

This introduces a second form to the plugin configuration file, using
directly downloaded plugins but specified with a command to execute,
which is still a base name of an executable in the plugin_directory
path.

We also introduce two new global configuration options,
plugin_auto_download, whether or not plugins are automatically
downloaded, and plugin_auto_register, for whether or not plugins are
automatically registered into the catalog. Both trigger on server
restart and/or SIGHUP. `bao plugin init` is not affected by the value
of plugin_auto_download and will always download all defined plugins.

In this way, the configuration file can be used to fully manage the
lifecycle of plugins from downloading, to registration, to removal.
Note that OpenBao will not automatically remove stale plugins; this
is on the operator to handle.

Like audit devices, plugins manually registered via the API cannot be
shadowed in the configuration file. This means that if OCI plugins are
registered manually, plugin_auto_register cannot be set to true.

Future enhancements could be removing previously declared (but not
currently registered or declared) plugins and disabling API-driven
plugin registration.

Related: #1476

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

* Update documentation, add RFC to website

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <alexander.m.scheel@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>
Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <alexander.m.scheel@gmail.com>

website/content/api-docs/system/plugins-catalog.mdx, after:

---
description: The `/sys/plugins/catalog` endpoint is used to manage plugins.
---

# `/sys/plugins/catalog`

The `/sys/plugins/catalog` endpoint is used to read, register, update, and
remove plugins in OpenBao's catalog. Plugins must be registered before use, and
once registered backends can use the plugin by querying the catalog.

## LIST plugins

This endpoint lists the plugins in the catalog by type.

| Method | Path                   |
| :----- | :--------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/plugins/catalog` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/plugins/catalog
```

### Sample response

```json
{
    "data": {
        "auth": [
            "custom-auth-plugin",
            "ldap"
        ],
        "database": [
            "cassandra-database-plugin",
            "mysql-database-plugin",
            "postgresql-database-plugin"
        ],
        "detailed": [
            {
                "builtin": true,
                "deprecation_status": "supported",
                "name": "ldap",
                "type": "auth",
                "version": "v1.14.8+builtin.openbao"
            },
            ...
            {
                "builtin": true,
                "deprecation_status": "supported",
                "name": "cassandra-database-plugin",
                "type": "database",
                "version": "v1.14.8+builtin.openbao"
            },
            ...
        ],
        "secret": [
            "transit"
        ]
    }
}
```

## LIST plugins

This endpoint lists the plugins in the catalog by type.

| Method | Path                            |
| :----- | :------------------------------ |
| `LIST` | `/sys/plugins/catalog/auth`     |
| `LIST` | `/sys/plugins/catalog/database` |
| `LIST` | `/sys/plugins/catalog/secret`   |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request LIST
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/plugins/catalog/auth
```

### Sample response

```json
{
    "data": {
        "keys": [
            "custom-auth-plugin",
            "ldap"
        ]
    }
}
```

## Register plugin

This endpoint registers a new plugin, or updates an existing one with the
supplied name.

- **`sudo` required** – This endpoint requires `sudo` capability in addition to
  any path-specific capabilities.

| Method | Path                               |
| :----- | :--------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/plugins/catalog/:type/:name` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the name for this plugin. The name
  is what is used to look up plugins in the catalog. This is part of the request
  URL.

- `type` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the type of this plugin. May be
  "auth", "database", or "secret".

- `version` `(string: "")` - Specifies the semantic version of this plugin.

- `sha256` `(string: <required>)` – This is the SHA256 sum of the plugin's
  binary. Before a plugin is run it's SHA will be checked against this value, if
  they do not match the plugin can not be run.

- `command` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the command used to execute the
  plugin. This is relative to the plugin directory. e.g. `"myplugin"`.

- `args` `(array: [])` – Specifies the arguments used to execute the plugin. If
  the arguments are provided here, the `command` parameter should only contain
  the named program. e.g. `"--my_flag=1"`.

- `env` `(array: [])` – Specifies the environment variables used during the
  execution of the plugin. Each entry is of the form "key=value". e.g
  `"FOO=BAR"`.

- `oci` `(bool: false)` - Whether the plugin is a declaratively donwloaded OCI plugin.
  Note that manually registering such plugins means that `plugin_auto_register=true`
  cannot be used.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "sha256": "d130b9a0fbfddef9709d8ff92e5e6053ccd246b78632fc03b8548457026961e9",
  "command": "mysql-database-plugin"
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/plugins/catalog/secret/example-plugin
```

## Read plugin

This endpoint returns the configuration data for the plugin with the given name.

- **`sudo` required** – This endpoint requires `sudo` capability in addition to
  any path-specific capabilities.

| Method | Path                                                |
| :----- | :-------------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/plugins/catalog/:type/:name?version=:version` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the name of the plugin to retrieve.
  This is part of the request URL.

- `type` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the type of this plugin. May be
  "auth", "database", or "secret".

- `version` `(string: "")` – The semantic version of the plugin to read. Required
  if the plugin was registered with a version.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request GET \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/plugins/catalog/secret/example-plugin?version=v1.0.0
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "args": [],
    "builtin": false,
    "command": "/tmp/openbao-plugins/mysql-database-plugin",
    "name": "example-plugin",
    "sha256": "0TC5oPv93vlwnY/5Ll5gU8zSRreGMvwDuFSEVwJpYek=",
    "version": "v1.0.0"
  }
}
```

## Remove plugin from catalog

This endpoint removes the plugin with the given name.

- **`sudo` required** – This endpoint requires `sudo` capability in addition to
  any path-specific capabilities.

| Method   | Path                                                |
| :------- | :-------------------------------------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/sys/plugins/catalog/:type/:name?version=:version` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the name of the plugin to delete.
  This is part of the request URL.

- `type` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the type of this plugin. May be
  "auth", "database", or "secret".

- `version` `(string: "")` – Specifies the semantic version of the plugin
  to delete.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/plugins/catalog/secret/example-plugin?version=v1.0.0
```
