website/content/api-docs/system/policy.mdx, before:

---
description: The `/sys/policy` endpoint is used to manage ACL policies in OpenBao.
---

# `/sys/policy`

The `/sys/policy` endpoint is used to manage ACL policies in OpenBao.

## List policies

This endpoint lists all configured policies. This endpoint optionally takes a
prefix to list policies under.

| Method  | Path                  |
| :------ | :-------------------- |
| `GET`   | `/sys/policy`         |
| `LIST`  | `/sys/policy/:prefix` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/policy
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "policies": ["root", "deploy"]
}
```

## Read policy

This endpoint retrieve the policy body for the named policy.

| Method | Path                |
| :----- | :------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/sys/policy/:name` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the name of the policy to retrieve.
  This is specified as part of the request URL.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/policy/my-policy
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "name": "my-policy",
  "rules": "path \"secret/*\"...
}
```

## Create/Update policy

This endpoint adds a new or updates an existing policy. Once a policy is
updated, it takes effect immediately to all associated users.

| Method | Path                |
| :----- | :------------------ |
| `POST` | `/sys/policy/:name` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the name of the policy to create.
  This is specified as part of the request URL.

- `policy` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the policy document.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "policy": "path \"secret/foo\" {..."
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/policy/my-policy
```

## Delete policy

This endpoint deletes the policy with the given name. This will immediately
affect all users associated with this policy.

| Method   | Path                |
| :------- | :------------------ |
| `DELETE` | `/sys/policy/:name` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the name of the policy to delete.
  This is specified as part of the request URL.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/policy/my-policy
```

Commit message:

Allow expiration of ACL policies
This change allows policy authors to set expiration times for policies;
after which, the system will remove them (on next fetch; though they'll
still be present in list results) and will not allow them to be used.

Note that there is no PATCH operation on policies at the moment; this
means that expiration must continually set on each write operation. In
the future, supporting PATCH to either modify expiration or would be
ideal.

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

website/content/api-docs/system/policy.mdx, after:

---
description: The `/sys/policy` endpoint is used to manage ACL policies in OpenBao.
---

# `/sys/policy`

The `/sys/policy` endpoint is used to manage ACL policies in OpenBao.

## List policies

This endpoint lists all configured policies. This endpoint optionally takes a
prefix to list policies under.

| Method  | Path                  |
| :------ | :-------------------- |
| `GET`   | `/sys/policy`         |
| `LIST`  | `/sys/policy/:prefix` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/policy
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "policies": ["root", "deploy"]
}
```

## Read policy

This endpoint retrieve the policy body for the named policy.

| Method | Path                |
| :----- | :------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/sys/policy/:name` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the name of the policy to retrieve.
  This is specified as part of the request URL.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/policy/my-policy
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "name": "my-policy",
  "rules": "path \"secret/*\"...
}
```

## Create/Update policy

This endpoint adds a new or updates an existing policy. Once a policy is
updated, it takes effect immediately to all associated users.

| Method | Path                |
| :----- | :------------------ |
| `POST` | `/sys/policy/:name` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the name of the policy to create.
  This is specified as part of the request URL.

- `policy` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the policy document.

- `expiration` `(time: <optional>)` - Specifies an expiration time after which
  the policy will no longer be valid and will be removed on next load. Cannot
  be set in conjunction with `ttl` and cannot be in the past.

- `ttl` `(duration: <optional>)` - Specifies a time for which the policy will
  be valid and will be removed on next load. Cannot be set in conjunction with
  `expiration`.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "policy": "path \"secret/foo\" {..."
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/policy/my-policy
```

## Delete policy

This endpoint deletes the policy with the given name. This will immediately
affect all users associated with this policy.

| Method   | Path                |
| :------- | :------------------ |
| `DELETE` | `/sys/policy/:name` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the name of the policy to delete.
  This is specified as part of the request URL.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/policy/my-policy
```
