website/content/api-docs/system/rekey-recovery-key.mdx, before:

---
description: >-
  The `/sys/rekey-recovery-key` endpoints are used to rekey the recovery keys
  for OpenBao.
---

# `/sys/rekey-recovery-key`

The `/sys/rekey-recovery-key` endpoints are used to rekey the recovery keys for
OpenBao. Rekey endpoints only apply to seals that support recovery keys.

## Read rekey progress

This endpoint reads the configuration and progress of the current rekey attempt.

| Method | Path                           |
| :----- | :----------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/rekey-recovery-key/init` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey-recovery-key/init
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "started": true,
  "nonce": "2dbd10f1-8528-6246-09e7-82b25b8aba63",
  "t": 3,
  "n": 5,
  "progress": 1,
  "required": 3,
  "pgp_fingerprints": ["abcd1234"],
  "backup": true,
  "verification_required": false
}
```

If a rekey is started, then `n` is the new shares to generate and `t` is the
threshold required for the new shares. `progress` is how many recovery keys have
been provided for this rekey, where `required` must be reached to complete. The
`nonce` for the current rekey operation is also displayed. If PGP keys are being
used to encrypt the final shares, the key fingerprints and whether the final
keys will be backed up to physical storage will also be displayed.
`verification_required` indicates whether verification was enabled for this
operation.

## Start rekey

This endpoint initializes a new rekey attempt. Only a single recovery key rekey
attempt can take place at a time, and changing the parameters of a rekey
requires canceling and starting a new rekey, which will also provide a new
nonce.

| Method | Path                           |
| :----- | :----------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/rekey-recovery-key/init` |

### Parameters

- `secret_shares` `(int: <required>)` – Specifies the number of shares to split
  the recovery key into.

- `secret_threshold` `(int: <required>)` – Specifies the number of shares
  required to reconstruct the recovery key. This must be less than or equal to
  `secret_shares`.

- `pgp_keys` `(array<string>: nil)` – Specifies an array of PGP public keys used
  to encrypt the output recovery key shares. Ordering is preserved. The keys must be
  base64-encoded from their original binary representation. The size of this
  array must be the same as `secret_shares`.

- `backup` `(bool: false)` – Specifies if using PGP-encrypted keys, whether
  OpenBao should also store a plaintext backup of the PGP-encrypted keys at
  `core/recovery-keys-backup` in the physical storage backend. These can then
  be retrieved and removed via the `sys/rekey-recovery-key/backup` endpoint.

- `require_verification` `(bool: false)` – This turns on verification
  functionality. When verification is turned on, after successful authorization
  with the current unseal keys, the new unseal keys are returned but the
  recovery key is not actually rotated. The new keys must be provided to
  authorize the actual rotation of the key. This ensures that the new keys have
  been successfully saved and protects against a risk of the keys being lost
  after rotation but before they can be persisted. This can be used with
  without `pgp_keys`, and when used with it, it allows ensuring that the
  returned keys can be successfully decrypted before committing to the new
  shares, which the backup functionality does not provide.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "secret_shares": 10,
  "secret_threshold": 5
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey-recovery-key/init
```

## Cancel rekey

This endpoint cancels any in-progress rekey. This clears the rekey settings as
well as any progress made. This must be called to change the parameters of the
rekey. Note: verification is still a part of a rekey. If rekeying is canceled
during the verification flow, the current unseal keys remain valid.

| Method   | Path                           |
| :------- | :----------------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/sys/rekey-recovery-key/init` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey-recovery-key/init
```

## Read backup key

This endpoint returns the backup copy of PGP-encrypted recovery key shares. The
returned value is the nonce of the rekey operation and a map of PGP key
fingerprint to hex-encoded PGP-encrypted key.

| Method | Path                             |
| :----- | :------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/rekey/recovery-key-backup` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey/recovery-key-backup
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "nonce": "2dbd10f1-8528-6246-09e7-82b25b8aba63",
  "keys": {
    "abcd1234": "..."
  }
}
```

## Delete backup key

This endpoint deletes the backup copy of PGP-encrypted recovery key shares.

| Method   | Path                             |
| :------- | :------------------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/sys/rekey/recovery-key-backup` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token" \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey/recovery-key-backup
```

## Submit key

This endpoint is used to enter a single recovery key share to progress the rekey
of the OpenBao. If the threshold number of recovery key shares is reached, OpenBao
will complete the rekey. Otherwise, this API must be called multiple times until
that threshold is met. The rekey nonce operation must be provided with each
call.

When the operation is complete, this will return a response like the example
below; otherwise the response will be the same as the `GET` method against
`sys/rekey/init`, providing status on the operation itself.

If verification was requested, successfully completing this flow will
immediately put the operation into a verification state, and provide the nonce
for the verification operation.

| Method | Path                             |
| :----- | :------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/rekey-recovery-key/update` |

### Parameters

- `key` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies a single recovery share key.

- `nonce` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the nonce of the rekey operation.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "key": "AB32...",
  "nonce": "abcd1234..."
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey-recovery-key/update
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "complete": true,
  "keys": ["one", "two", "three"],
  "nonce": "2dbd10f1-8528-6246-09e7-82b25b8aba63",
  "pgp_fingerprints": ["abcd1234"],
  "keys_base64": ["base64keyvalue"],
  "backup": true,
  "verification_required": true,
  "verification_nonce": "8b112c9e-2738-929d-bcc2-19aff249ff10"
}
```

If the keys are PGP-encrypted, an array of key fingerprints will also be
provided (with the order in which the keys were used for encryption) along with
whether or not the keys were backed up to physical storage.

## Read rekey recovery key verification progress

This endpoint reads the configuration and progress of the current rekey
verification attempt.

| Method | Path                             |
| :----- | :------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/rekey-recovery-key/verify` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey-recovery-key/verify
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "nonce": "8b112c9e-2738-929d-bcc2-19aff249ff10",
  "t": 3,
  "n": 5,
  "progress": 1
}
```

`n` is the total number of new shares that were generated and `t` is the
threshold required for the new shares to pass verification. `progress` is how
many of the new unseal keys have been provided for this verification operation.
The `nonce` for the current rekey operation is also displayed.

## Cancel rekey verification

This endpoint cancels any in-progress rekey verification operation. This clears
any progress made and resets the nonce. Unlike a `DELETE` against
`sys/rekey-recovery-key/init`, this only resets the current verification
operation, not the entire rekey atttempt. The return value is the same as `GET`
along with the new nonce.

| Method   | Path                             |
| :------- | :------------------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/sys/rekey-recovery-key/verify` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey-recovery-key/verify
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "nonce": "5827bbc1-0110-5725-cc21-beddc129d942",
  "t": 3,
  "n": 5,
  "progress": 0
}
```

## Submit verification key

This endpoint is used to enter a single new key share to progress the rekey
verification operation. If the threshold number of new key shares is reached,
OpenBao will complete the rekey by performing the actual rotation of the recovery
key. Otherwise, this API must be called multiple times until that threshold is
met. The nonce must be provided with each call.

When the operation is complete, this will return a response like the example
below; otherwise the response will be the same as the `GET` method against
`sys/rekey-recovery-key/verify`, providing status on the operation itself.

| Method | Path                             |
| :----- | :------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/rekey-recovery-key/verify` |

### Parameters

- `key` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies a single recovery share key from the
  new set of shares.

- `nonce` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the nonce of the rekey
  verification operation.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "key": "A58d...",
  "nonce": "5a27bbc1..."
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey-recovery-key/verify
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "nonce": "5827bbc1-0110-5725-cc21-beddc129d942",
  "complete": true
}
```

Commit message:

Add authenticated rotation endpoints documentation (#1622)
* docs: added documentation for rotation and refactored mentions of rekeying

Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

* cr: addressed comments on the pr

Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

* cr: another round of fixes

Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

* refactor: added info panel to newly introduced endpoints in v2.4.0

Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>
Signed-off-by: Geoff Wilson <geoff@gr-oss.io>

website/content/api-docs/system/rekey-recovery-key.mdx, after:

---
description: >-
  The `/sys/rekey-recovery-key` endpoints are used to rekey the recovery keys
  for OpenBao.
---

# `/sys/rekey-recovery-key`

:::warning

Note: As of v2.4.0 usage of these endpoints is [deprecated](/docs/deprecation/unauthed-rekey)
and will be disabled by default. For the new authenticated version of the rekey
endpoints, please see [rotation endpoints](/api-docs/system/rotate). To re-enable,
see the documentation around the `disable_unauthed_rekey_endpoints` [listener parameter](/docs/configuration/listener/unix/).

:::

The `/sys/rekey-recovery-key` endpoints are used to rekey the recovery keys for
OpenBao. Rekey endpoints only apply to seals that support recovery keys.

## Read rekey progress

This endpoint reads the configuration and progress of the current rekey attempt.

| Method | Path                           |
| :----- | :----------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/rekey-recovery-key/init` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey-recovery-key/init
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "started": true,
  "nonce": "2dbd10f1-8528-6246-09e7-82b25b8aba63",
  "t": 3,
  "n": 5,
  "progress": 1,
  "required": 3,
  "pgp_fingerprints": ["abcd1234"],
  "backup": true,
  "verification_required": false
}
```

If a rekey is started, then `n` is the new shares to generate and `t` is the
threshold required for the new shares. `progress` is how many recovery keys have
been provided for this rekey, where `required` must be reached to complete. The
`nonce` for the current rekey operation is also displayed. If PGP keys are being
used to encrypt the final shares, the key fingerprints and whether the final
keys will be backed up to physical storage will also be displayed.
`verification_required` indicates whether verification was enabled for this
operation.

## Start rekey

This endpoint initializes a new rekey attempt. Only a single recovery key rekey
attempt can take place at a time, and changing the parameters of a rekey
requires canceling and starting a new rekey, which will also provide a new
nonce.

| Method | Path                           |
| :----- | :----------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/rekey-recovery-key/init` |

### Parameters

- `secret_shares` `(int: <required>)` – Specifies the number of shares to split
  the recovery key into.

- `secret_threshold` `(int: <required>)` – Specifies the number of shares
  required to reconstruct the recovery key. This must be less than or equal to
  `secret_shares`.

- `pgp_keys` `(array<string>: nil)` – Specifies an array of PGP public keys used
  to encrypt the output recovery key shares. Ordering is preserved. The keys must be
  base64-encoded from their original binary representation. The size of this
  array must be the same as `secret_shares`.

- `backup` `(bool: false)` – Specifies if using PGP-encrypted keys, whether
  OpenBao should also store a plaintext backup of the PGP-encrypted keys at
  `core/recovery-keys-backup` in the physical storage backend. These can then
  be retrieved and removed via the `sys/rekey-recovery-key/backup` endpoint.

- `require_verification` `(bool: false)` – This turns on verification
  functionality. When verification is turned on, after successful authorization
  with the current unseal keys, the new unseal keys are returned but the
  recovery key is not actually rotated. The new keys must be provided to
  authorize the actual rotation of the key. This ensures that the new keys have
  been successfully saved and protects against a risk of the keys being lost
  after rotation but before they can be persisted. This can be used with
  without `pgp_keys`, and when used with it, it allows ensuring that the
  returned keys can be successfully decrypted before committing to the new
  shares, which the backup functionality does not provide.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "secret_shares": 10,
  "secret_threshold": 5
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey-recovery-key/init
```

## Cancel rekey

This endpoint cancels any in-progress rekey. This clears the rekey settings as
well as any progress made. This must be called to change the parameters of the
rekey. Note: verification is still a part of a rekey. If rekeying is canceled
during the verification flow, the current unseal keys remain valid.

| Method   | Path                           |
| :------- | :----------------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/sys/rekey-recovery-key/init` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey-recovery-key/init
```

## Read backup key

This endpoint returns the backup copy of PGP-encrypted recovery key shares. The
returned value is the nonce of the rekey operation and a map of PGP key
fingerprint to hex-encoded PGP-encrypted key.

| Method | Path                             |
| :----- | :------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/rekey/recovery-key-backup` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey/recovery-key-backup
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "nonce": "2dbd10f1-8528-6246-09e7-82b25b8aba63",
  "keys": {
    "abcd1234": "..."
  }
}
```

## Delete backup key

This endpoint deletes the backup copy of PGP-encrypted recovery key shares.

| Method   | Path                             |
| :------- | :------------------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/sys/rekey/recovery-key-backup` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token" \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey/recovery-key-backup
```

## Submit key

This endpoint is used to enter a single recovery key share to progress the rekey
of the OpenBao. If the threshold number of recovery key shares is reached, OpenBao
will complete the rekey. Otherwise, this API must be called multiple times until
that threshold is met. The rekey nonce operation must be provided with each
call.

When the operation is complete, this will return a response like the example
below; otherwise the response will be the same as the `GET` method against
`sys/rekey/init`, providing status on the operation itself.

If verification was requested, successfully completing this flow will
immediately put the operation into a verification state, and provide the nonce
for the verification operation.

| Method | Path                             |
| :----- | :------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/rekey-recovery-key/update` |

### Parameters

- `key` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies a single recovery share key.

- `nonce` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the nonce of the rekey operation.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "key": "AB32...",
  "nonce": "abcd1234..."
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey-recovery-key/update
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "complete": true,
  "keys": ["one", "two", "three"],
  "nonce": "2dbd10f1-8528-6246-09e7-82b25b8aba63",
  "pgp_fingerprints": ["abcd1234"],
  "keys_base64": ["base64keyvalue"],
  "backup": true,
  "verification_required": true,
  "verification_nonce": "8b112c9e-2738-929d-bcc2-19aff249ff10"
}
```

If the keys are PGP-encrypted, an array of key fingerprints will also be
provided (with the order in which the keys were used for encryption) along with
whether or not the keys were backed up to physical storage.

## Read rekey recovery key verification progress

This endpoint reads the configuration and progress of the current rekey
verification attempt.

| Method | Path                             |
| :----- | :------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/rekey-recovery-key/verify` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey-recovery-key/verify
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "nonce": "8b112c9e-2738-929d-bcc2-19aff249ff10",
  "t": 3,
  "n": 5,
  "progress": 1
}
```

`n` is the total number of new shares that were generated and `t` is the
threshold required for the new shares to pass verification. `progress` is how
many of the new unseal keys have been provided for this verification operation.
The `nonce` for the current rekey operation is also displayed.

## Cancel rekey verification

This endpoint cancels any in-progress rekey verification operation. This clears
any progress made and resets the nonce. Unlike a `DELETE` against
`sys/rekey-recovery-key/init`, this only resets the current verification
operation, not the entire rekey atttempt. The return value is the same as `GET`
along with the new nonce.

| Method   | Path                             |
| :------- | :------------------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/sys/rekey-recovery-key/verify` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey-recovery-key/verify
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "nonce": "5827bbc1-0110-5725-cc21-beddc129d942",
  "t": 3,
  "n": 5,
  "progress": 0
}
```

## Submit verification key

This endpoint is used to enter a single new key share to progress the rekey
verification operation. If the threshold number of new key shares is reached,
OpenBao will complete the rekey by performing the actual rotation of the recovery
key. Otherwise, this API must be called multiple times until that threshold is
met. The nonce must be provided with each call.

When the operation is complete, this will return a response like the example
below; otherwise the response will be the same as the `GET` method against
`sys/rekey-recovery-key/verify`, providing status on the operation itself.

| Method | Path                             |
| :----- | :------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/rekey-recovery-key/verify` |

### Parameters

- `key` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies a single recovery share key from the
  new set of shares.

- `nonce` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the nonce of the rekey
  verification operation.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "key": "A58d...",
  "nonce": "5a27bbc1..."
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rekey-recovery-key/verify
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "nonce": "5827bbc1-0110-5725-cc21-beddc129d942",
  "complete": true
}
```
