website/content/api-docs/system/remount.mdx, before:

---
description: >-
  The '/sys/remount' endpoint is used remount a mounted backend to a new
  endpoint.
---

# Remount ( API )

The Remount documentation details the endpoints required to trigger and monitor the status of a remount operation.

## Move backend

The `/sys/remount` endpoint moves an already-mounted backend to a new mount point. Remounting works for both secret
engines and auth methods.

OpenBao returns a migration ID when the remount operation completes. You
can use the migration ID to look up the status of the mount migration.
More details about the remount operation are described in
[Mount Migration](/docs/concepts/mount-migration).

:::warning

Note: This endpoint requires a policy with both `sudo` and `update` capabilities to `sys/remount`

:::

:::warning

Note: A mount migration will revoke all leases for the secrets of a secrets backend or tokens of an auth backend,
depending on which type of backend is being moved.

:::


| Method | Path           |
| :----- | :------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/remount` |

### Parameters

- `from` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the previous mount point.

- `to` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the new destination mount point.

### Sample payload ( cross namespace )

```json
{
  "from": "ns1/ns2/secret",
  "to": "ns1/ns3/new-secret"
}
```

### Sample payload ( cross namespace, auth mount )

```json
{
  "from": "ns1/ns2/auth/approle",
  "to": "ns1/ns3/auth/new-approle"
}
```

### Sample payload ( within namespace )

```json
{
  "from": "secret",
  "to": "new-secret"
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/remount
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "migration_id": "ef3ba21c-8be8-4e5f-8d00-cb46a532c665"
}
```

## Monitor migration status


This endpoint is used to monitor the status of a mount migration operation, using the ID returned in the response
of the `sys/remount` call. The response contains the passed-in ID, the source and target mounts, and a status field
that displays `in-progress`, `success` or `failure`.

| Method | Path           |
| :----- | :------------- |
| `GET` | `/sys/remount/status/:migration_id` |

### Parameters

- `migration_id` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the id of the mount migration

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/remount/status/ef3ba21c-8be8-4e5f-8d00-cb46a532c665
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "migration_id": "ef3ba21c-8be8-4e5f-8d00-cb46a532c665",
  "migration_info": {
    "source_mount": "ns1/ns2/secret",
    "target_mount": "ns1/ns3/new-secret",
    "status": "in-progress",
  }
}
```

Commit message:

docs: add warning to mount and auth move
Signed-off-by: Philipp Stehle <philipp.stehle@secretz.io>

website/content/api-docs/system/remount.mdx, after:

---
description: >-
  The '/sys/remount' endpoint is used remount a mounted backend to a new
  endpoint.
---

# Remount ( API )

The Remount documentation details the endpoints required to trigger and monitor
the status of a remount operation.

## Move backend

The `/sys/remount` endpoint moves an already-mounted backend to a new mount
point. Remounting works for both secret engines and auth methods.

OpenBao returns a migration ID when the remount operation completes. You
can use the migration ID to look up the status of the mount migration.
More details about the remount operation are described in
[Mount Migration](/docs/concepts/mount-migration).

:::warning

Note: This endpoint requires a policy with both `sudo` and `update` capabilities
to `sys/remount`

:::

:::warning

Note: A mount migration will revoke all leases for the secrets of a secrets
backend or tokens of an auth backend, depending on which type of backend is
being moved.

:::

:::warning

Before migrating a mount to a new path, one should ensure it is currently not
actively used. Using a mount while it's being moved will lead to inconsistent
reads on standby nodes.

:::

| Method | Path           |
| :----- | :------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/remount` |

### Parameters

- `from` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the previous mount point.

- `to` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the new destination mount point.

### Sample payload ( cross namespace )

```json
{
  "from": "ns1/ns2/secret",
  "to": "ns1/ns3/new-secret"
}
```

### Sample payload ( cross namespace, auth mount )

```json
{
  "from": "ns1/ns2/auth/approle",
  "to": "ns1/ns3/auth/new-approle"
}
```

### Sample payload ( within namespace )

```json
{
  "from": "secret",
  "to": "new-secret"
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/remount
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "migration_id": "ef3ba21c-8be8-4e5f-8d00-cb46a532c665"
}
```

## Monitor migration status


This endpoint is used to monitor the status of a mount migration operation,
using the ID returned in the response of the `sys/remount` call. The response
contains the passed-in ID, the source and target mounts, and a status field that
displays `in-progress`, `success` or `failure`.

| Method | Path           |
| :----- | :------------- |
| `GET` | `/sys/remount/status/:migration_id` |

### Parameters

- `migration_id` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the id of the mount migration

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/remount/status/ef3ba21c-8be8-4e5f-8d00-cb46a532c665
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "migration_id": "ef3ba21c-8be8-4e5f-8d00-cb46a532c665",
  "migration_info": {
    "source_mount": "ns1/ns2/secret",
    "target_mount": "ns1/ns3/new-secret",
    "status": "in-progress",
  }
}
```
