website/content/docs/contributing/index.mdx, before:

---
description: |-
  OpenBao contribution guides, outlining welcomed contribution processes and providing an in-depth overview of the code base.
displayed_sidebar: docs
---

# Contributing

We welcome contributions to OpenBao of any type, whether from users,
programmers, or even those curious about what OpenBao is! For more
general information, see our [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
document in the root of [our repository](https://github.com/openbao/openbao).

## Community Roles

For an overview of roles in our community and how to participate, see our
[`MAINTAINERS.md`](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/blob/main/MAINTAINERS.md)
file.

## Chat server

We use the Linux Foundation's Zulip server,
[`https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/),
and the following channels:

- [`#openssf-openbao-discussion`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/529890-openssf-openbao-discussion)
- [`#openssf-openbao-support`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/530381-openssf-openbao-support)
- [`#openssf-openbao-tsc`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/530382-openssf-openbao-tsc)
- Working Groups:
  - [`#openssf-openbao-wg-namespaces`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/532995-openssf-openbao-wg-namespaces)
  - [`#openssf-openbao-wg-pkcs11`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/532994-openssf-openbao-wg-pkcs11)
  - [`#openssf-openbao-wg-scalability`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/532998-openssf-openbao-wg-scalability)
  - [`#openssf-openbao-wg-supply`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/532999-openssf-openbao-wg-supply)
  - [`#openssf-openbao-wg-ui`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/532997-openssf-openbao-wg-ui)

## Community calls

The public community call is hosted every non-holiday Thursday, at 8AM Pacific,
11AM Eastern for 30 minutes on Zoom. After joining the [mailing
list](https://lists.openssf.org/g/openbao), the [calendar](https://lists.openssf.org/g/openbao/calendar)
includes a link to subscribe to invite notifications and the Zoom bridge for
the call.

Feel free to join and/or send agenda topics via email, GitHub discussion, or
on the Zulip server!

Meeting recordings are linked in the [Community Call Agenda document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HZOjDpm0i2fD-W26FkmMQQStVYFgX3evP-nMpgiGmsA).

## TSC calls

The public Technical Steering Committee (TSC) calls are hosted every second
Thursday of the month at 7AM Pacific, 10AM Eastern for 30 minutes on Zoom.
This bridge is stable from past meets and can be found from the recordings
below.

Feel free to join!

Meeting recordings are linked in the [TSC Agenda document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oNqm4GXCsIZbcNHsIqft4kgciRcuwS9rrIRGXlMz1yg).

### TSC charter

View our [charter](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/blob/main/CHARTER.md).

This charter was approved on [2024-06-13](https://lf-edge.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/OP/pages/15211981/2024-06-13+OpenBao+TSC+Meeting) and revised 2025-06-05 to notate the move to the OpenSSF.

## Development guides

 - To ease contribution, we've put together a [code organization](code-organization.mdx)
   guide.

Commit message:

Add more extensive warnings on AI agents
This was discussed in the October TSC meeting.

See also: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oNqm4GXCsIZbcNHsIqft4kgciRcuwS9rrIRGXlMz1yg/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.52zbex718qh5

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

website/content/docs/contributing/index.mdx, after:

---
description: |-
  OpenBao contribution guides, outlining welcomed contribution processes and providing an in-depth overview of the code base.
displayed_sidebar: docs
---

# Contributing

We welcome contributions to OpenBao of any type, whether from users,
programmers, or even those curious about what OpenBao is! For more
general information, see our [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
document in the root of [our repository](https://github.com/openbao/openbao).

:::warning

Disable all generative AI agents while working on OpenBao!

(This includes GitHub Copilot, Cursor, Claude Code, and others.)

By using generative AI agents, you cannot guarantee that you have the full
legal rights required to submit the code generated by an AI. We require you
use the [DCO ownership](https://developercertificate.org/) sign-off, which
you cannot do with generative AI agents trained on third-party code.

Use of AI in other capacity (search, discussion, &c) remains fine.

Please do not submit such pull-requests to this project. Thanks!

:::

## Community Roles

For an overview of roles in our community and how to participate, see our
[`MAINTAINERS.md`](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/blob/main/MAINTAINERS.md)
file.

## Chat server

We use the Linux Foundation's Zulip server,
[`https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/),
and the following channels:

- [`#openssf-openbao-discussion`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/529890-openssf-openbao-discussion)
- [`#openssf-openbao-support`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/530381-openssf-openbao-support)
- [`#openssf-openbao-tsc`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/530382-openssf-openbao-tsc)
- Working Groups:
  - [`#openssf-openbao-wg-namespaces`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/532995-openssf-openbao-wg-namespaces)
  - [`#openssf-openbao-wg-pkcs11`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/532994-openssf-openbao-wg-pkcs11)
  - [`#openssf-openbao-wg-scalability`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/532998-openssf-openbao-wg-scalability)
  - [`#openssf-openbao-wg-supply`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/532999-openssf-openbao-wg-supply)
  - [`#openssf-openbao-wg-ui`](https://linuxfoundation.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/532997-openssf-openbao-wg-ui)

## Community calls

The public community call is hosted every non-holiday Thursday, at 8AM Pacific,
11AM Eastern for 30 minutes on Zoom. After joining the [mailing
list](https://lists.openssf.org/g/openbao), the [calendar](https://lists.openssf.org/g/openbao/calendar)
includes a link to subscribe to invite notifications and the Zoom bridge for
the call.

Feel free to join and/or send agenda topics via email, GitHub discussion, or
on the Zulip server!

Meeting recordings are linked in the [Community Call Agenda document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HZOjDpm0i2fD-W26FkmMQQStVYFgX3evP-nMpgiGmsA).

## TSC calls

The public Technical Steering Committee (TSC) calls are hosted every second
Thursday of the month at 7AM Pacific, 10AM Eastern for 30 minutes on Zoom.
This bridge is stable from past meets and can be found from the recordings
below.

Feel free to join!

Meeting recordings are linked in the [TSC Agenda document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oNqm4GXCsIZbcNHsIqft4kgciRcuwS9rrIRGXlMz1yg).

### TSC charter

View our [charter](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/blob/main/CHARTER.md).

This charter was approved on [2024-06-13](https://lf-edge.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/OP/pages/15211981/2024-06-13+OpenBao+TSC+Meeting) and revised 2025-06-05 to notate the move to the OpenSSF.

## Development guides

 - To ease contribution, we've put together a [code organization](code-organization.mdx)
   guide.
