website/content/docs/contributing/packaging.mdx, before:

---
description: |-
  Packaging OpenBao for distribution
displayed_sidebar: docs
---

# Packaging guide

The ultimate reference for packaging is our
[`.goreleaser-template.yaml`](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/blob/main/.goreleaser-template.yaml).

This document serves as a reference to some options available there.

:::warning

The scripts in the `Makefile` are for development only. They do not constitute
a stable or supported interface for release builds. They often make
assumptions true in development environments (such as having a full Git tree
available) that may not be true in release build environments.

If you use those interfaces for release builds, you do so at your own risk.

:::

:::info

While `goreleaser` is used for our upstream release binaries, it may not be a
suitable tool for your builds. This document does not contain instructions on
invoking `goreleaser` as performed upstream, but serves as a reference for
building a stable downstream release build process for packaging environments.

It may not be complete; feel free to extend it via GitHub pull request.

:::

## Suggested dependencies

 - NodeJS, npm, and Yarn for building the UI.
 - Go toolchain for building.

For version information, refer to our release process. The Go toolchain
version used by this project is documented in the `/.go-version` file.

## UI Release

To build a release version of the UI:

```
# UI must be built from the UI directory.
cd ui/

# Install dependencies via yarn.
yarn

# Rebuild the node-sass dependency.
npm rebuild node-sass

# Perform the release build via yarn.
yarn run build
```

This creates a directory, `/http/web_ui`, which contains the output of the
build.

## Go binary

### Required ldflags

To build a release binary, define the following variables via [linker flag variable
definitions](https://pkg.go.dev/cmd/link) as appropriate:

| Parameter | Value |
| :-------- | :---- |
| `github.com/openbao/openbao/version.fullVersion` | Version number of OpenBao; typically this matches the upstream version. Must be semver (`<major>.<minor>.<patch>`). Required. |
| `github.com/openbao/openbao/version.GitCommit` | Git commit for reference; string. Required. |
| `github.com/openbao/openbao/version.BuildDate` | Build timestamp string in the format `%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ` (UTC). Usually this is the date of the commit. Required. |
| `github.com/openbao/openbao/version.VersionMetadata` | Custom version information; string. Optional. |

### Known tags

The following tags are known:

| Tag   | Effect |
| :---- | :----- |
| `ui`  | Enables bundling of the WebUI into the release. |
| `hsm` | Enables PKCS#11 HSM support. Requires [CGo](#cgo) to be enabled. |

:::warning

The following flags **SHOULD NOT** be used in a release version:

| Tag | Effect |
| :-- | :----- |
| `memprofiler` | Includes a memory profiler in the release binary for debugging purposes only. |
| `testonly`    | Includes insecure custom hooks only for testing purposes.                     |
| `deadlock`    | Includes deadlock detection during testing.                                   |
| `race`        | Enabled for race testing.                                                     |

:::

### CGo

CGo can be enabled on any platform but has no effect on most as OpenBao is
generally built as a static library. Occasionally, the Go toolchain will
change its behavior on various platforms if CGo is enabled.

The exception to this is PKCS#11 HSM support. This only works on glibc-based
distributions and does not support musl or other alternative stdlib
implementations. To enable CGo support (and thus, PKCS#11 HSM support), set
`CGO_ENABLED=1` in the release binary and assert the `hsm` tag.

### Building

For instance, our upstream release invokes Go as follows:

```
CGO_ENABLED=0 go build \
 -ldflags "-X github.com/openbao/openbao/version.fullVersion=v2.1.0 -X github.com/openbao/openbao/version.GitCommit=93609bf0c73a18dd81ac8c7d21b95cbde1e4887c -X github.com/openbao/openbao/version.BuildDate=2024-11-29T15:34:50Z"
 .
```

### Linux package scripts

Other scripts for Linux packaging are available under the `.release/linux`
directory.

### Container images

Our container images use the binary directly with the containerfile at
`/Dockerfile`. The entrypoint used is available under `.release/docker/`.

Commit message:

Add tlsdebug build tag to log TLS session keys
Signed-off-by: Philipp Stehle <philipp.stehle@secretz.io>

website/content/docs/contributing/packaging.mdx, after:

---
description: |-
  Packaging OpenBao for distribution
displayed_sidebar: docs
---

# Packaging guide

The ultimate reference for packaging is our
[`.goreleaser-template.yaml`](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/blob/main/.goreleaser-template.yaml).

This document serves as a reference to some options available there.

:::warning

The scripts in the `Makefile` are for development only. They do not constitute
a stable or supported interface for release builds. They often make
assumptions true in development environments (such as having a full Git tree
available) that may not be true in release build environments.

If you use those interfaces for release builds, you do so at your own risk.

:::

:::info

While `goreleaser` is used for our upstream release binaries, it may not be a
suitable tool for your builds. This document does not contain instructions on
invoking `goreleaser` as performed upstream, but serves as a reference for
building a stable downstream release build process for packaging environments.

It may not be complete; feel free to extend it via GitHub pull request.

:::

## Suggested dependencies

 - NodeJS, npm, and Yarn for building the UI.
 - Go toolchain for building.

For version information, refer to our release process. The Go toolchain
version used by this project is documented in the `/.go-version` file.

## UI Release

To build a release version of the UI:

```
# UI must be built from the UI directory.
cd ui/

# Install dependencies via yarn.
yarn

# Rebuild the node-sass dependency.
npm rebuild node-sass

# Perform the release build via yarn.
yarn run build
```

This creates a directory, `/http/web_ui`, which contains the output of the
build.

## Go binary

### Required ldflags

To build a release binary, define the following variables via [linker flag variable
definitions](https://pkg.go.dev/cmd/link) as appropriate:

| Parameter | Value |
| :-------- | :---- |
| `github.com/openbao/openbao/version.fullVersion` | Version number of OpenBao; typically this matches the upstream version. Must be semver (`<major>.<minor>.<patch>`). Required. |
| `github.com/openbao/openbao/version.GitCommit` | Git commit for reference; string. Required. |
| `github.com/openbao/openbao/version.BuildDate` | Build timestamp string in the format `%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ` (UTC). Usually this is the date of the commit. Required. |
| `github.com/openbao/openbao/version.VersionMetadata` | Custom version information; string. Optional. |

### Known tags

The following tags are known:

| Tag   | Effect |
| :---- | :----- |
| `ui`  | Enables bundling of the WebUI into the release. |
| `hsm` | Enables PKCS#11 HSM support. Requires [CGo](#cgo) to be enabled. |

:::warning

The following flags **SHOULD NOT** be used in a release version:

| Tag | Effect |
| :-- | :----- |
| `deadlock`    | Includes deadlock detection during testing.                                   |
| `memprofiler` | Includes a memory profiler in the release binary for debugging purposes only. |
| `race`        | Enabled for race testing.                                                     |
| `testonly`    | Includes insecure custom hooks only for testing purposes.                     |
| `tlsdebug`    | Enables TLS session key dumping, e.g. for debugging with Wireshark.           |

:::

### CGo

CGo can be enabled on any platform but has no effect on most as OpenBao is
generally built as a static library. Occasionally, the Go toolchain will
change its behavior on various platforms if CGo is enabled.

The exception to this is PKCS#11 HSM support. This only works on glibc-based
distributions and does not support musl or other alternative stdlib
implementations. To enable CGo support (and thus, PKCS#11 HSM support), set
`CGO_ENABLED=1` in the release binary and assert the `hsm` tag.

### Building

For instance, our upstream release invokes Go as follows:

```
CGO_ENABLED=0 go build \
 -ldflags "-X github.com/openbao/openbao/version.fullVersion=v2.1.0 -X github.com/openbao/openbao/version.GitCommit=93609bf0c73a18dd81ac8c7d21b95cbde1e4887c -X github.com/openbao/openbao/version.BuildDate=2024-11-29T15:34:50Z"
 .
```

### Linux package scripts

Other scripts for Linux packaging are available under the `.release/linux`
directory.

### Container images

Our container images use the binary directly with the containerfile at
`/Dockerfile`. The entrypoint used is available under `.release/docker/`.
