website/content/docs/policies/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
description: |-
  A list of OpenBao policy decisions made by the community and Technical Steering Committee.
---

# Policies

The following is a list of policies decided upon by the community and the
OpenBao Technical Steering Committee.

## Brand standards

Interested in using our logo? Check out our [brand standards](/docs/policies/brand).

## Community decisions

 - [Deprecation Policy](/docs/policies/deprecation), for executing the
   deprecation and removal of a feature from the code base.
 - [Plugin Support Policy](/docs/policies/plugins), for deciding which
   plugins to keep within the OpenBao Core distribution and which to support
   as external plugins.
 - [Migration Path Policy](/docs/policies/migration), for compatibility
   guarantees between OpenBao and upstream.
 - [Support & Release EoL Policy](/docs/policies/support), to document release
   lifecycles and implied support policies.

## Community processes

 - [Release Checklist](/docs/policies/release), for creating a new release.

Commit message:

Add responsible disclosure policy (#1908)
This was discussed in the Dev WG and approved by that body.

See also: https://github.com/openbao/dev-wg/issues/57

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>
Signed-off-by: Geoff Wilson <geoff@gr-oss.io>

website/content/docs/policies/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
description: |-
  A list of OpenBao policy decisions made by the community and Technical Steering Committee.
---

# Policies

The following is a list of policies decided upon by the community and the
OpenBao Technical Steering Committee.

## Brand standards

Interested in using our logo? Check out our [brand standards](/docs/policies/brand).

## Community decisions

 - [Deprecation Policy](/docs/policies/deprecation), for executing the
   deprecation and removal of a feature from the code base.
 - [Plugin Support Policy](/docs/policies/plugins), for deciding which
   plugins to keep within the OpenBao Core distribution and which to support
   as external plugins.
 - [Migration Path Policy](/docs/policies/migration), for compatibility
   guarantees between OpenBao and upstream.
 - [Support & Release EoL Policy](/docs/policies/support), to document release
   lifecycles and implied support policies.
 - [Security Vulnerability and Disclosure Policy](/docs/policies/cve), to
   document the project's approach to responsible security disclosure.

## Community processes

 - [Release Checklist](/docs/policies/release), for creating a new release.
