website/content/docs/policies/plugins.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Plugin Support Policy
description: |-
  The OpenBao policy decision around supported plugins.
---

# Plugin support policy

This policy was original [discussed on
GitHub](https://github.com/orgs/openbao/discussions/64) and ratified on
the [February 1st, 2024 meeting](https://wiki.lfedge.org/display/OH/OpenBao+Meetings).

This proposal outlines plugins to support, based on the four major types of
plugins (auth, secrets, database -- a specialization of secrets, and storage).

The philosophy of this plugin reduction is as follows:

 1. Minimize maintenance burden on the open source community.
 2. Prioritize community supportable & debuggable OSI licensed integrations
    over proprietary integrations.
 3. Become opinionated on an approach to plugins in general.
 4. Allow a broader community to maintain external plugins.

In particular, this means that plugins previously built-in like
`database/mongodb` no longer are first-class supported as they are not under
an OSI license. Similarly, all cloud vendors' plugins have been moved external
as well, for the community to support independent of the main core release
cycle.

This proposal suggests aligning [with Lars's proposal](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/30)
to move builtin, supported plugins into the main repository: these builtin
plugins will be released with the binary and thus versioned similarly.
External, community-supported plugins can be in separate repositories released
as separate binaries & container images, allowing additional maintainers to be
added. This has the added benefit of not tying these external plugins to the
main repository's release cycle, allowing contributors to release as they see
fit and not holding up the main release on third-party dependencies.

(To be clear -- For non-OSI integration plugins for which the broader
 community is interest in maintaining them, the suggested mechanism is via
 a separate repository, building external plugins (rather than built-in to
 the release binary). This will allow additional maintainers to be nominated
 (without commit access to the main repository) and allows for a separate
 release schedule more suitable for this plugin. This is to say, the broader
 OpenBao community can support additional proprietary plugins, but the core
 release artifacts and release cycle will not include these by default.)

This should greatly reduce the binary size as well, as many dependencies can
be removed (as, for instance, the Azure SDK and other cloud provider SDKs
can be removed as a dependency, which greatly contributed to binary size --
see `https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/issues/22893#issuecomment-1712569767`).

Lastly, storage plugins were removed. Only two types of plugins were
officially supported in an Enterprise context upstream: Consul and Raft.
Consul is no longer OSI-licensed, and no fork has been made apparent at this
time. Other plugins lack features that Raft has (in the Vault Enterprise
variant), and support for multiple backend storage plugins has caused other
issues. Thus, the decision to simplify to Raft aligns more closely with what
upstream has done in practice and greatly reduces our maintenance burden.
In-mem and file backends are left for historical testing reasons and will
not be supported in production (non-dev-mode) usage.

See [repos.md](https://gist.github.com/cipherboy/26f5c44d4ffcfef60accfe1bfa976aee)
for context on the different types of plugins.

## Auth plugins

| name | repo |
| :--- | :--- |
| approle | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/credential/approle](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/credential/approle) |
| cert | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/credential/cert](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/credential/cert) |
| jwt | [github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-auth-jwt](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-auth-jwt) |
| kerberos | [github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-auth-kerberos](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-auth-kerberos) |
| kubernetes | [github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-auth-kubernetes](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-auth-kubernetes) |
| ldap | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/credential/ldap](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/credential/ldap) |
| radius | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/credential/radius](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/credential/radius) |
| token | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/credential/token](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/credential/token) |
| userpass | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/credential/userpass](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/credential/userpass) |

## Database plugins

| name | repo |
| :--- | :--- |
| cassandra | [github.com/openbao/openbao/plugins/database/cassandra](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/plugins/database/cassandra) |
| influxdb | [github.com/openbao/openbao/plugins/database/influxdb](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/plugins/database/influxdb) |
| mysql | [github.com/openbao/openbao/plugins/database/mysql](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/plugins/database/mysql) |
| postgresql | [github.com/openbao/openbao/plugins/database/postgresql](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/plugins/database/postgresql) |

## Secrets plugins

| name | repo |
| :--- | :--- |
| database | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/logical/database](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/logical/database) |
| kv | [github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-secrets-kv](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-secrets-kv) |
| kubernetes | [github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-secrets-kubernetes](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-secrets-kubernetes) |
| openldap | [github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-secrets-openldap](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-secrets-openldap) |
| pki | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/logical/pki](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/logical/pki) |
| rabbitmq | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/logical/rabbitmq](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/logical/rabbitmq) |
| ssh | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/logical/ssh](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/logical/ssh) |
| totp | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/logical/totp](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/logical/totp) |
| transit | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/logical/transit](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/logical/transit) |

## Storage backends

| name | repo |
| :--- | :--- |
| raft | [github.com/openbao/openbao/physical/raft](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/physical/raft) |
| file | [github.com/openbao/openbao/sdk/physical/file](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/sdk/physical/file) |
| inmem | [github.com/openbao/openbao/sdk/physical/inmem](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/sdk/physical/inmem) |

## `go-kms-wrapping`

Initially no plugins will be removed from this, but the package will remain
as a separate repository. However, if PKCS#11 bindings are contributed, this
could warrant a migration from native seals to PKCS#11 libraries to reduce
binary size and avoid the need to maintain each cloud provider's integration
separately. This has the added benefit of easing cross-cloud migrations and
being testable locally with SoftHSM.

# Net additions and removals

## Additions to main repo

 - auth-jwt
 - auth-kerberos
 - auth-kubernetes
 - database-redis
 - secrets-kv
 - secrets-kubernetes
 - secrets-openldap

## Removals of builtin plugins to external, community supported

 - auth-alicloud
 - auth-aws
 - auth-azure
 - auth-centiry
 - auth-cf
 - auth-gcp
 - auth-github
 - auth-oci
 - auth-okta
 - database-couchbase
 - database-elasticsearch
 - database-hana
 - database-mongodb
 - database-mongodbatlas
 - database-mssql
 - database-redis, as it [relicensed to the proprietary
   RSALv2 & SSPLv1](https://redis.com/blog/redis-adopts-dual-source-available-licensing/)
   licenses after this RFC was accepted and prior to initial Alpha.
 - database-redis-elasticache
 - database-redshift
 - database-snowflake
 - secrets-ad
 - secrets-alicloud
 - secrets-aws
 - secrets-azure
 - secrets-consul
 - secrets-gcp
 - secrets-gcpkms
 - secrets-monogodbatlas
 - secrets-nomad
 - secrets-terraform
 - storage-aerospike
 - storage-alicloudoss
 - storage-azure
 - storage-cassandra
 - storage-cockroachdb
 - storage-consul
 - storage-couchdb
 - storage-dynamodb
 - storage-etcd
 - storage-foundationdb
 - storage-gcs
 - storage-manta
 - storage-mssql
 - storage-mysql
 - storage-oci
 - storage-postgresql
 - storage-s3
 - sotrage-spanner
 - storage-switf
 - storage-zookeeper

Commit message:

Revive Valkey plugin (#1019)
* Revert "Remove the Redis database plugin"

This reverts commit 31317136e53c25a6a184678e7c945755b2aef419.

We also fix instances where api->api/v2 and sdk->sdk/v2 in order for the
go.mod changes to be re-applied.

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

* Update documentation to refer to Valkey

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

* Rename Redis->Valkey in plugin

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

* Add changelog entry

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

* Remove old HashiCorp-specific Redis testing

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

website/content/docs/policies/plugins.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Plugin Support Policy
description: |-
  The OpenBao policy decision around supported plugins.
---

# Plugin support policy

This policy was original [discussed on
GitHub](https://github.com/orgs/openbao/discussions/64) and ratified on
the [February 1st, 2024 meeting](https://wiki.lfedge.org/display/OH/OpenBao+Meetings).

This proposal outlines plugins to support, based on the four major types of
plugins (auth, secrets, database -- a specialization of secrets, and storage).

The philosophy of this plugin reduction is as follows:

 1. Minimize maintenance burden on the open source community.
 2. Prioritize community supportable & debuggable OSI licensed integrations
    over proprietary integrations.
 3. Become opinionated on an approach to plugins in general.
 4. Allow a broader community to maintain external plugins.

In particular, this means that plugins previously built-in like
`database/mongodb` no longer are first-class supported as they are not under
an OSI license. Similarly, all cloud vendors' plugins have been moved external
as well, for the community to support independent of the main core release
cycle.

This proposal suggests aligning [with Lars's proposal](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/30)
to move builtin, supported plugins into the main repository: these builtin
plugins will be released with the binary and thus versioned similarly.
External, community-supported plugins can be in separate repositories released
as separate binaries & container images, allowing additional maintainers to be
added. This has the added benefit of not tying these external plugins to the
main repository's release cycle, allowing contributors to release as they see
fit and not holding up the main release on third-party dependencies.

(To be clear -- For non-OSI integration plugins for which the broader
 community is interest in maintaining them, the suggested mechanism is via
 a separate repository, building external plugins (rather than built-in to
 the release binary). This will allow additional maintainers to be nominated
 (without commit access to the main repository) and allows for a separate
 release schedule more suitable for this plugin. This is to say, the broader
 OpenBao community can support additional proprietary plugins, but the core
 release artifacts and release cycle will not include these by default.)

This should greatly reduce the binary size as well, as many dependencies can
be removed (as, for instance, the Azure SDK and other cloud provider SDKs
can be removed as a dependency, which greatly contributed to binary size --
see `https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/issues/22893#issuecomment-1712569767`).

Lastly, storage plugins were removed. Only two types of plugins were
officially supported in an Enterprise context upstream: Consul and Raft.
Consul is no longer OSI-licensed, and no fork has been made apparent at this
time. Other plugins lack features that Raft has (in the Vault Enterprise
variant), and support for multiple backend storage plugins has caused other
issues. Thus, the decision to simplify to Raft aligns more closely with what
upstream has done in practice and greatly reduces our maintenance burden.
In-mem and file backends are left for historical testing reasons and will
not be supported in production (non-dev-mode) usage.

See [repos.md](https://gist.github.com/cipherboy/26f5c44d4ffcfef60accfe1bfa976aee)
for context on the different types of plugins.

## Auth plugins

| name | repo |
| :--- | :--- |
| approle | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/credential/approle](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/credential/approle) |
| cert | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/credential/cert](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/credential/cert) |
| jwt | [github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-auth-jwt](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-auth-jwt) |
| kerberos | [github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-auth-kerberos](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-auth-kerberos) |
| kubernetes | [github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-auth-kubernetes](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-auth-kubernetes) |
| ldap | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/credential/ldap](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/credential/ldap) |
| radius | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/credential/radius](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/credential/radius) |
| token | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/credential/token](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/credential/token) |
| userpass | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/credential/userpass](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/credential/userpass) |

## Database plugins

| name | repo |
| :--- | :--- |
| cassandra | [github.com/openbao/openbao/plugins/database/cassandra](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/plugins/database/cassandra) |
| influxdb | [github.com/openbao/openbao/plugins/database/influxdb](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/plugins/database/influxdb) |
| mysql | [github.com/openbao/openbao/plugins/database/mysql](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/plugins/database/mysql) |
| postgresql | [github.com/openbao/openbao/plugins/database/postgresql](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/plugins/database/postgresql) |
| redis | [github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-database-redis](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-database-redis) |

:::info

Since this document was adopted, `redis` changed to a non-OSI license and was
subsequently removed. However, the plugin has been reintroduced under the name
of its fork, Valkey.

:::

## Secrets plugins

| name | repo |
| :--- | :--- |
| database | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/logical/database](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/logical/database) |
| kv | [github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-secrets-kv](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-secrets-kv) |
| kubernetes | [github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-secrets-kubernetes](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-secrets-kubernetes) |
| openldap | [github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-secrets-openldap](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-secrets-openldap) |
| pki | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/logical/pki](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/logical/pki) |
| rabbitmq | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/logical/rabbitmq](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/logical/rabbitmq) |
| ssh | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/logical/ssh](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/logical/ssh) |
| totp | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/logical/totp](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/logical/totp) |
| transit | [github.com/openbao/openbao/builtin/logical/transit](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/builtin/logical/transit) |

## Storage backends

| name | repo |
| :--- | :--- |
| raft | [github.com/openbao/openbao/physical/raft](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/physical/raft) |
| file | [github.com/openbao/openbao/sdk/physical/file](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/sdk/physical/file) |
| inmem | [github.com/openbao/openbao/sdk/physical/inmem](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/tree/development/sdk/physical/inmem) |

## `go-kms-wrapping`

Initially no plugins will be removed from this, but the package will remain
as a separate repository. However, if PKCS#11 bindings are contributed, this
could warrant a migration from native seals to PKCS#11 libraries to reduce
binary size and avoid the need to maintain each cloud provider's integration
separately. This has the added benefit of easing cross-cloud migrations and
being testable locally with SoftHSM.

# Net additions and removals

## Additions to main repo

 - auth-jwt
 - auth-kerberos
 - auth-kubernetes
 - database-redis
 - secrets-kv
 - secrets-kubernetes
 - secrets-openldap

:::info

Since this document was adopted, `redis` changed to a non-OSI license and was
subsequently removed. However, the plugin has been reintroduced under the name
of its fork, Valkey.

:::

## Removals of builtin plugins to external, community supported

 - auth-alicloud
 - auth-aws
 - auth-azure
 - auth-centiry
 - auth-cf
 - auth-gcp
 - auth-github
 - auth-oci
 - auth-okta
 - database-couchbase
 - database-elasticsearch
 - database-hana
 - database-mongodb
 - database-mongodbatlas
 - database-mssql
 - database-redis-elasticache
 - database-redshift
 - database-snowflake
 - secrets-ad
 - secrets-alicloud
 - secrets-aws
 - secrets-azure
 - secrets-consul
 - secrets-gcp
 - secrets-gcpkms
 - secrets-monogodbatlas
 - secrets-nomad
 - secrets-terraform
 - storage-aerospike
 - storage-alicloudoss
 - storage-azure
 - storage-cassandra
 - storage-cockroachdb
 - storage-consul
 - storage-couchdb
 - storage-dynamodb
 - storage-etcd
 - storage-foundationdb
 - storage-gcs
 - storage-manta
 - storage-mssql
 - storage-mysql
 - storage-oci
 - storage-postgresql
 - storage-s3
 - sotrage-spanner
 - storage-switf
 - storage-zookeeper
