website/content/docs/commands/plugin/register.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: register
description: |-
  The "plugin register" command registers a new plugin in OpenBao's plugin
  catalog.
---

# plugin register

The `plugin register` command registers a new plugin in OpenBao's plugin catalog.
The plugin's type of "auth", "database", or "secret" must be included.

## Examples

Register a plugin:

```shell-session
$ bao plugin register \
    -sha256=d3f0a8be02f6c074cf38c9c99d4d04c9c6466249 \
    -version=v1.0.0 \
    auth my-custom-plugin
Success! Registered plugin: my-custom-plugin
```

Register a plugin with custom args:

```shell-session
$ bao plugin register \
    -sha256=d3f0a8be02f6c074cf38c9c99d4d04c9c6466249 \
    -version=v1.0.0 \
    -args=--with-glibc,--with-curl-bindings \
    auth my-custom-plugin
```

## Usage

The following flags are available in addition to the [standard set of
flags](../index.mdx) included on all commands.

### Output options

- `-format` `(string: "table")` - Print the output in the given format. Valid
  formats are "table", "json", or "yaml". This can also be specified via the
  `BAO_FORMAT` environment variable.

### Command options

- `-sha256` `(string: <required>)` - Checksum (SHA256) of the plugin binary.

- `-args` `(string: "")` - List of arguments to pass to the binary plugin during
  each invocation. Specify multiple arguments with commas.

- `-command` `(string: "")` - Name of the command to run to invoke the binary.
  By default, this is the name of the plugin.

- `-version` `(string: "")` - Semantic version of the plugin to run from
  the catalog. If unspecified, refers to the unversioned plugin registered with
  the same name and type, or the built-in plugin, in that order of precedence.

Commit message:

Auto register plugins (#2132)
* Allow auto-registration of plugins

This introduces a second form to the plugin configuration file, using
directly downloaded plugins but specified with a command to execute,
which is still a base name of an executable in the plugin_directory
path.

We also introduce two new global configuration options,
plugin_auto_download, whether or not plugins are automatically
downloaded, and plugin_auto_register, for whether or not plugins are
automatically registered into the catalog. Both trigger on server
restart and/or SIGHUP. `bao plugin init` is not affected by the value
of plugin_auto_download and will always download all defined plugins.

In this way, the configuration file can be used to fully manage the
lifecycle of plugins from downloading, to registration, to removal.
Note that OpenBao will not automatically remove stale plugins; this
is on the operator to handle.

Like audit devices, plugins manually registered via the API cannot be
shadowed in the configuration file. This means that if OCI plugins are
registered manually, plugin_auto_register cannot be set to true.

Future enhancements could be removing previously declared (but not
currently registered or declared) plugins and disabling API-driven
plugin registration.

Related: #1476

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

* Update documentation, add RFC to website

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <alexander.m.scheel@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>
Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <alexander.m.scheel@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/commands/plugin/register.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: register
description: |-
  The "plugin register" command registers a new plugin in OpenBao's plugin
  catalog.
---

# plugin register

The `plugin register` command registers a new plugin in OpenBao's plugin catalog.
The plugin's type of "auth", "database", or "secret" must be included.

## Examples

Register a plugin:

```shell-session
$ bao plugin register \
    -sha256=d3f0a8be02f6c074cf38c9c99d4d04c9c6466249 \
    -version=v1.0.0 \
    auth my-custom-plugin
Success! Registered plugin: my-custom-plugin
```

Register a plugin with custom args:

```shell-session
$ bao plugin register \
    -sha256=d3f0a8be02f6c074cf38c9c99d4d04c9c6466249 \
    -version=v1.0.0 \
    -args=--with-glibc,--with-curl-bindings \
    auth my-custom-plugin
```

## Usage

The following flags are available in addition to the [standard set of
flags](../index.mdx) included on all commands.

### Output options

- `-format` `(string: "table")` - Print the output in the given format. Valid
  formats are "table", "json", or "yaml". This can also be specified via the
  `BAO_FORMAT` environment variable.

### Command options

- `-sha256` `(string: <required>)` - Checksum (SHA256) of the plugin binary.

- `-args` `(string: "")` - List of arguments to pass to the binary plugin during
  each invocation. Specify multiple arguments with commas.

- `-oci` `(bool: false)` - Whether the plugin is a declaratively donwloaded OCI plugin.
  Note that manually registering such plugins means that `plugin_auto_register=true`
  cannot be used.

- `-command` `(string: "")` - Name of the command to run to invoke the binary.
  By default, this is the name of the plugin.

- `-version` `(string: "")` - Semantic version of the plugin to run from
  the catalog. If unspecified, refers to the unversioned plugin registered with
  the same name and type, or the built-in plugin, in that order of precedence.
