website/content/docs/install.mdx, before:

---
description: |-
  Download a precompiled binary, compile from source, or use a package.
---

# Installing OpenBao

There are several options to install OpenBao:

1. Install from a [package manager](#package-manager).

1. Deploy using a [container registry](#container-registries).

1. Use a [precompiled binary](#precompiled-binaries).

1. Install [from source](#compiling-from-source).

1. [Helm for Kubernetes](/docs/platform/k8s/helm)


## Package manager

### Homebrew - MacOS

```shell-session
$ brew info openbao
$ brew install openbao
```

### FreeBSD

```shell-session
$ pkg install openbao
```

### Linux

:::info


OpenBao does not yet have a package repository. For now you need to download and
install packages manually.

:::

OpenBao manages packages for Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora, RHEL, Amazon Linux, and
other distributions. [Download](/downloads) the appropriate package for your
operating system and architecture.

## Container registries

OpenBao deploys pre-built container images based on [Alpine Linux](https://alpinelinux.org/)
to the following registries:

 1. [`ghcr.io/openbao/openbao`](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pkgs/container/openbao)
 1. [`quay.io/openbao/openbao`](https://quay.io/repository/openbao/openbao)
 1. [`docker.io/openbao/openbao`](https://hub.docker.com/r/openbao/openbao)

For container images based on [RHEL UBI](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/introducing-red-hat-universal-base-image),
we push to the following registries:


 1. [`ghcr.io/openbao/openbao-ubi`](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pkgs/container/openbao-ubi)
 1. [`quay.io/openbao/openbao-ubi`](https://quay.io/repository/openbao/openbao-ubi)
 1. [`docker.io/openbao/openbao-ubi`](https://hub.docker.com/r/openbao/openbao-ubi)

## Precompiled binaries

To install the precompiled binary, [download](/downloads) the applicable
package for your system. OpenBao is packaged as a zip file.

Once the zip is downloaded, unzip the file into your designated directory. The `bao` binary
inside is all that is necessary to run OpenBao (or `bao.exe` for Windows). No
additional files are required to run OpenBao.

Copy the binary to your system. If you intend to access it from the
command-line, ensure that you place the binary somewhere on your `PATH`.

Refer to the [OpenBao Tutorials][learn-vault-dev-server] to start a server, `put`
your first secret, and use other features of OpenBao.

## Compiling from source

To compile from source, you will need [Go](https://golang.org) installed and
properly configured (including a `GOPATH` environment variable set), as well as
a copy of [`git`](https://www.git-scm.com/) in your `PATH`.

Clone the OpenBao repository from GitHub into your `GOPATH`:

```shell-session
$ mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/openbao && cd $_
$ git clone https://github.com/openbao/openbao.git
$ cd openbao
```

Bootstrap the project. This will download and compile libraries and tools needed
to compile OpenBao:

```shell-session
$ make bootstrap
```

Build OpenBao for your current system and put the binary in `./bin/` (relative to
the git checkout). The `make dev` target is just a shortcut that builds `bao`
for only your local build environment (no cross-compiled targets).

```shell-session
$ make dev
```

## Verifying the installation

To verify OpenBao is installed, run `bao -h` on your system. You should
see the help output. If you are executing it from the command line, ensure it is
on your `PATH` to avoid receiving an error that OpenBao is not found.

```shell-session
$ bao -h
```

## Post-installation hardening

After installing OpenBao, you may want to take additional steps to secure it
against leaking your secrets. OpenBao normally does this very well, but there
is an operating system feature that undermines OpenBao's protection. This is
[memory paging (aka swap)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memory_paging). To
provide extra security, you will want to make sure that your OS has swap
disabled or that its swap space is encrypted.

### Linux

The example systemd service file provided with the OpenBao source code comes
configured to disable swap for the OpenBao process. To verify that swap is
disabled, run `systemctl cat openbao` and check for the line `MemorySwapMax=0`.
Alternatively, to allow the openbao process to swap out, make sure that line is
deleted.

If you are not using systemd, you can achieve the same effect by setting the 
cgroupv2 value `memory.swap.max` to `0` using your tool of choice. You can
disable swap for the entire OS by running `swapoff` (this is not recommended).
Encrypting swap space in Linux is possible, but as usual, there are many
options, and a guide is outside the scope of these docs. Consult your distro's
documentation.

### BSDs and other Unix-like

It is recommended to confirm that swap is encrypted. This can be done on all the
major BSDs.
 * [FreeBSD guide to encrypted swap](https://docs.freebsd.org/en/books/handbook/disks/#swap-encrypting)
 * [NetBSD guide to encrypted swap](https://netbsd.org/docs/guide/en/netbsd.html#chap-cgd-swap-encryption)
 * [OpenBSD info on encrypted swap (enabled by default)](https://man.openbsd.org/sysctl.2#VM_SWAPENCRYPT~2)

### Windows

You can check if your swap space is encrypted by opening Powershell and running:
```shell-session
> fsutil behavior query encryptpagingfile
```
If the value is 0 (that is, `DISABLED`), you are recommended to enable swap
encryption by running:
```shell-session
> fsutil behavior set encryptpagingfile 1
```
Then reboot.

### Docker

When running the Docker image, include the flag `--memory-swappiness=0`.

### macOS

[The swap space on macOS is always encrypted](https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/what-is-secure-virtual-memory-on-mac-mh11852/mac).

## Checksum Verification

### SHA-256

Download the release and checksum files:

```shell-session
$ OS="freebsd"
$ ARCH="x86_64"
$ PLATFORM="$OS_$ARCH"
$ VERSION=$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/openbao/openbao/releases | jq -r '.[0] .tag_name' | cut -d'v' -f2-)
$ RELEASE="bao_$VERSION_$PLATFORM.tar.gz"
$ wget https://github.com/openbao/openbao/releases/download/v$VERSION/bao_$VERSION_$PLATFORM.tar.gz
$ wget https://github.com/openbao/openbao/releases/download/v$VERSION/checksums-$OS.txt
$ wget https://github.com/openbao/openbao/releases/download/v$VERSION/checksums-$OS.txt.gpgsig
```

Verify the checksum using `sha256sum`:

```shell-session
$ sha256sum --check checksums-$OS.txt 2>/dev/null
```

## Signature Verification

### GPG

First, download our [GPG key](pathname:///assets/openbao-gpg-pub-20240618.asc) and import it:

```shell-session
$ wget https://openbao.org/assets/openbao-gpg-pub-20240618.asc
$ gpg2 --import openbao-gpg-pub-20240618.asc
gpg: key D200CD702853E6D0: public key "OpenBao <openbao@lists.lfedge.org>" imported
gpg: Total number processed: 1
gpg:               imported: 1
```

To verify GPG signed artifacts, use `gpg2` from the command line. For example, to verify `checksums-freebsd.txt` with the `checksums-freebsd.txt.gpgsig` stored locally:

```shell-session
$ gpg2 --verify checksums-freebsd.txt.gpgsig checksums-freebsd.txt
gpg: Signature made Wed 17 Jul 2024 06:12:03 PM EDT
gpg:                using RSA key E617DCD4065C2AFC0B2CF7A7BA8BC08C0F691F94
gpg: Good signature from "OpenBao <openbao@lists.lfedge.org>" [unknown]
gpg: WARNING: This key is not certified with a trusted signature!
gpg:          There is no indication that the signature belongs to the owner.
Primary key fingerprint: 66D1 5FDD 8728 7219 C8E1  5478 D200 CD70 2853 E6D0
     Subkey fingerprint: E617 DCD4 065C 2AFC 0B2C  F7A7 BA8B C08C 0F69 1F94
```

### Cosign and Rekor

To verify Cosign signed artifacts, use `rekor-cli` or `curl` to [pull the entry from Rekor](https://edu.chainguard.dev/open-source/sigstore/rekor/how-to-verify-file-signatures-with-rekor-or-curl/).

For example, to verify `checksums.txt` with the `checksums.txt.sig` stored locally:

```shell-session
$ SHASUM="$(openssl sha256 -r checksums.txt | awk '{print $1}')"
bc53476e7e69c98650bf69690caf1aa32dc08c19735375819ae3b29bb9c2b733
$ curl -X POST -H "Content-type: application/json" 'https://rekor.sigstore.dev/api/v1/index/retrieve' --data-raw "{\"hash\":\"sha256:$SHASUM\"}"
24296fb24b8ad77aedcc1a0cea8b33a04926d6f3b8db35107a1e864c007bb4aa84416a5153cc0bca
$ UUID=24296fb24b8ad77aedcc1a0cea8b33a04926d6f3b8db35107a1e864c007bb4aa84416a5153cc0bca
$ curl -X GET "https://rekor.sigstore.dev/api/v1/log/entries/${UUID}" > response.json
$ jq -r ".[\"$UUID\"].body" < response.json | base64 -d | jq -r '.spec.signature.publicKey.content' | base64 -d > certificate.pem
$ base64 -d < checksums-freebsd.txt.sig > checksums-freebsd.txt.rawsig
$ openssl pkeyutl -verify -certin -inkey certificate.pem -sigfile checksums-freebsd.txt.rawsig -in checksums-freebsd.txt -rawin
Signature Verified Successfully
```

Commit message:

Add warning to compiling from source guide
Also introduces a packaging guide addressing common questions.

As reported by @pgnd on Matrix.

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

website/content/docs/install.mdx, after:

---
description: |-
  Download a precompiled binary, compile from source, or use a package.
---

# Installing OpenBao

There are several options to install OpenBao:

1. Install from a [package manager](#package-manager).

1. Deploy using a [container registry](#container-registries).

1. Use a [precompiled binary](#precompiled-binaries).

1. Install [from source](#compiling-from-source).

1. [Helm for Kubernetes](/docs/platform/k8s/helm)


## Package manager

### Homebrew - MacOS

```shell-session
$ brew info openbao
$ brew install openbao
```

### FreeBSD

```shell-session
$ pkg install openbao
```

### Linux

:::info


OpenBao does not yet have a package repository. For now you need to download and
install packages manually.

:::

OpenBao manages packages for Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora, RHEL, Amazon Linux, and
other distributions. [Download](/downloads) the appropriate package for your
operating system and architecture.

## Container registries

OpenBao deploys pre-built container images based on [Alpine Linux](https://alpinelinux.org/)
to the following registries:

 1. [`ghcr.io/openbao/openbao`](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pkgs/container/openbao)
 1. [`quay.io/openbao/openbao`](https://quay.io/repository/openbao/openbao)
 1. [`docker.io/openbao/openbao`](https://hub.docker.com/r/openbao/openbao)

For container images based on [RHEL UBI](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/introducing-red-hat-universal-base-image),
we push to the following registries:


 1. [`ghcr.io/openbao/openbao-ubi`](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pkgs/container/openbao-ubi)
 1. [`quay.io/openbao/openbao-ubi`](https://quay.io/repository/openbao/openbao-ubi)
 1. [`docker.io/openbao/openbao-ubi`](https://hub.docker.com/r/openbao/openbao-ubi)

## Precompiled binaries

To install the precompiled binary, [download](/downloads) the applicable
package for your system. OpenBao is packaged as a zip file.

Once the zip is downloaded, unzip the file into your designated directory. The `bao` binary
inside is all that is necessary to run OpenBao (or `bao.exe` for Windows). No
additional files are required to run OpenBao.

Copy the binary to your system. If you intend to access it from the
command-line, ensure that you place the binary somewhere on your `PATH`.

Refer to the [OpenBao Tutorials][learn-vault-dev-server] to start a server, `put`
your first secret, and use other features of OpenBao.

## Compiling from source

:::warning

These instructions are for a **development** build; do not rely on them for
release binaries.

Instead, [refer to our packaging guide](/docs/contributing/packaging).

:::

To compile from source, you will need [Go](https://golang.org) installed and
properly configured (including a `GOPATH` environment variable set), as well as
a copy of [`git`](https://www.git-scm.com/) in your `PATH`.

Clone the OpenBao repository from GitHub into your `GOPATH`:

```shell-session
$ mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/openbao && cd $_
$ git clone https://github.com/openbao/openbao.git
$ cd openbao
```

Bootstrap the project. This will download and compile libraries and tools needed
to compile OpenBao:

```shell-session
$ make bootstrap
```

Build OpenBao for your current system and put the binary in `./bin/` (relative to
the git checkout). The `make dev` target is just a shortcut that builds `bao`
for only your local build environment (no cross-compiled targets).

```shell-session
$ make dev
```

## Verifying the installation

To verify OpenBao is installed, run `bao -h` on your system. You should
see the help output. If you are executing it from the command line, ensure it is
on your `PATH` to avoid receiving an error that OpenBao is not found.

```shell-session
$ bao -h
```

## Post-installation hardening

After installing OpenBao, you may want to take additional steps to secure it
against leaking your secrets. OpenBao normally does this very well, but there
is an operating system feature that undermines OpenBao's protection. This is
[memory paging (aka swap)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memory_paging). To
provide extra security, you will want to make sure that your OS has swap
disabled or that its swap space is encrypted.

### Linux

The example systemd service file provided with the OpenBao source code comes
configured to disable swap for the OpenBao process. To verify that swap is
disabled, run `systemctl cat openbao` and check for the line `MemorySwapMax=0`.
Alternatively, to allow the openbao process to swap out, make sure that line is
deleted.

If you are not using systemd, you can achieve the same effect by setting the 
cgroupv2 value `memory.swap.max` to `0` using your tool of choice. You can
disable swap for the entire OS by running `swapoff` (this is not recommended).
Encrypting swap space in Linux is possible, but as usual, there are many
options, and a guide is outside the scope of these docs. Consult your distro's
documentation.

### BSDs and other Unix-like

It is recommended to confirm that swap is encrypted. This can be done on all the
major BSDs.
 * [FreeBSD guide to encrypted swap](https://docs.freebsd.org/en/books/handbook/disks/#swap-encrypting)
 * [NetBSD guide to encrypted swap](https://netbsd.org/docs/guide/en/netbsd.html#chap-cgd-swap-encryption)
 * [OpenBSD info on encrypted swap (enabled by default)](https://man.openbsd.org/sysctl.2#VM_SWAPENCRYPT~2)

### Windows

You can check if your swap space is encrypted by opening Powershell and running:
```shell-session
> fsutil behavior query encryptpagingfile
```
If the value is 0 (that is, `DISABLED`), you are recommended to enable swap
encryption by running:
```shell-session
> fsutil behavior set encryptpagingfile 1
```
Then reboot.

### Docker

When running the Docker image, include the flag `--memory-swappiness=0`.

### macOS

[The swap space on macOS is always encrypted](https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/what-is-secure-virtual-memory-on-mac-mh11852/mac).

## Checksum Verification

### SHA-256

Download the release and checksum files:

```shell-session
$ OS="freebsd"
$ ARCH="x86_64"
$ PLATFORM="$OS_$ARCH"
$ VERSION=$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/openbao/openbao/releases | jq -r '.[0] .tag_name' | cut -d'v' -f2-)
$ RELEASE="bao_$VERSION_$PLATFORM.tar.gz"
$ wget https://github.com/openbao/openbao/releases/download/v$VERSION/bao_$VERSION_$PLATFORM.tar.gz
$ wget https://github.com/openbao/openbao/releases/download/v$VERSION/checksums-$OS.txt
$ wget https://github.com/openbao/openbao/releases/download/v$VERSION/checksums-$OS.txt.gpgsig
```

Verify the checksum using `sha256sum`:

```shell-session
$ sha256sum --check checksums-$OS.txt 2>/dev/null
```

## Signature Verification

### GPG

First, download our [GPG key](pathname:///assets/openbao-gpg-pub-20240618.asc) and import it:

```shell-session
$ wget https://openbao.org/assets/openbao-gpg-pub-20240618.asc
$ gpg2 --import openbao-gpg-pub-20240618.asc
gpg: key D200CD702853E6D0: public key "OpenBao <openbao@lists.lfedge.org>" imported
gpg: Total number processed: 1
gpg:               imported: 1
```

To verify GPG signed artifacts, use `gpg2` from the command line. For example, to verify `checksums-freebsd.txt` with the `checksums-freebsd.txt.gpgsig` stored locally:

```shell-session
$ gpg2 --verify checksums-freebsd.txt.gpgsig checksums-freebsd.txt
gpg: Signature made Wed 17 Jul 2024 06:12:03 PM EDT
gpg:                using RSA key E617DCD4065C2AFC0B2CF7A7BA8BC08C0F691F94
gpg: Good signature from "OpenBao <openbao@lists.lfedge.org>" [unknown]
gpg: WARNING: This key is not certified with a trusted signature!
gpg:          There is no indication that the signature belongs to the owner.
Primary key fingerprint: 66D1 5FDD 8728 7219 C8E1  5478 D200 CD70 2853 E6D0
     Subkey fingerprint: E617 DCD4 065C 2AFC 0B2C  F7A7 BA8B C08C 0F69 1F94
```

### Cosign and Rekor

To verify Cosign signed artifacts, use `rekor-cli` or `curl` to [pull the entry from Rekor](https://edu.chainguard.dev/open-source/sigstore/rekor/how-to-verify-file-signatures-with-rekor-or-curl/).

For example, to verify `checksums.txt` with the `checksums.txt.sig` stored locally:

```shell-session
$ SHASUM="$(openssl sha256 -r checksums.txt | awk '{print $1}')"
bc53476e7e69c98650bf69690caf1aa32dc08c19735375819ae3b29bb9c2b733
$ curl -X POST -H "Content-type: application/json" 'https://rekor.sigstore.dev/api/v1/index/retrieve' --data-raw "{\"hash\":\"sha256:$SHASUM\"}"
24296fb24b8ad77aedcc1a0cea8b33a04926d6f3b8db35107a1e864c007bb4aa84416a5153cc0bca
$ UUID=24296fb24b8ad77aedcc1a0cea8b33a04926d6f3b8db35107a1e864c007bb4aa84416a5153cc0bca
$ curl -X GET "https://rekor.sigstore.dev/api/v1/log/entries/${UUID}" > response.json
$ jq -r ".[\"$UUID\"].body" < response.json | base64 -d | jq -r '.spec.signature.publicKey.content' | base64 -d > certificate.pem
$ base64 -d < checksums-freebsd.txt.sig > checksums-freebsd.txt.rawsig
$ openssl pkeyutl -verify -certin -inkey certificate.pem -sigfile checksums-freebsd.txt.rawsig -in checksums-freebsd.txt -rawin
Signature Verified Successfully
```
