website/content/docs/auth/jwt/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
description: >-
  The JWT/OIDC auth method allows authentication using OIDC and user-provided
  JWTs
---

# JWT/OIDC auth method

:::warning

**Note**: This engine can use external X.509 certificates as part of TLS or signature validation.
   Verifying signatures against X.509 certificates that use SHA-1 is deprecated and is no longer
   usable without a workaround. See the
   [deprecation FAQ](/docs/deprecation/faq#q-what-is-the-impact-of-removing-support-for-x-509-certificates-with-signatures-that-use-sha-1)
   for more information.

:::

The `jwt` auth method can be used to authenticate with OpenBao using
[OIDC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenID_Connect) or by providing a
[JWT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON_Web_Token).

The OIDC method allows authentication via a configured OIDC provider using the
user's web browser. This method may be initiated from the OpenBao UI or the
command line. Alternatively, a JWT can be provided directly. The JWT is
cryptographically verified using locally-provided keys, or, if configured, an
OIDC Discovery service can be used to fetch the appropriate keys. The choice of
method is configured per role.

Both methods allow additional processing of the claims data in the JWT. Some of
the concepts common to both methods will be covered first, followed by specific
examples of OIDC and JWT usage.

## OIDC authentication

This section covers the setup and use of OIDC roles. If a JWT is to be provided directly,
refer to the [JWT Authentication](/docs/auth/jwt#jwt-authentication) section below. Basic
familiarity with [OIDC concepts](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2017/07/25/oidc-primer-part-1)
is assumed. The Authorization Code flow makes use of the Proof Key for Code
Exchange (PKCE) extension.

OpenBao includes two built-in OIDC login flows: the OpenBao UI, and the CLI
using a `bao login`.

### Redirect URIs

Unless you are using `callbackmode=device`,
an important part of OIDC role configuration is properly setting redirect URIs. This must be
done both in OpenBao and with the OIDC provider, and these configurations must align. The
redirect URIs are specified for a role with the `allowed_redirect_uris` parameter. There are
different redirect URIs to configure the OpenBao UI and CLI flows, so one or both will need to
be set up depending on the installation.

**CLI**

If you plan to support authentication via `bao login -method=oidc` and
are not using `callbackmode=device`, a redirect URI with a path ending
in `oidc/callback` must be set. With the default `callbackmode=client`
this can usually be `http://localhost:8250/oidc/callback`.
With `callbackmode=direct` this should be a URI of the form:

`https://{host:port}/v1/auth/{path}/oidc/callback`

where "host:port" is the OpenBao server name and port, and "path" is the path the JWT
backend is mounted at (e.g. "oidc" or "jwt").

Logins via the CLI may
specify a different host and/or listening port if needed, and a URI with this host/port must match one
of the configured redirected URIs. These same URIs must be added to the provider as well.

**OpenBao UI**

Logging in via the OpenBao UI requires a redirect URI of the form:

`https://{host:port}/ui/vault/auth/{path}/oidc/callback`

The "host:port" must be correct for the OpenBao server, and "path" must match the path the JWT
backend is mounted at (e.g. "oidc" or "jwt").

If the [oidc_response_mode](/api-docs/auth/jwt#oidc_response_mode) is set to `form_post`, then
logging in via the OpenBao UI requires a redirect URI of the same form as the direct callback mode:

`https://{host:port}/v1/auth/{path}/oidc/callback`

### OIDC login (OpenBao UI)

1. Select the "OIDC" login method.
1. Enter a role name if necessary.
1. Press "Sign In" and complete the authentication with the configured provider.

### OIDC login (CLI)

The CLI login defaults to path of `/oidc`. If this auth method was enabled at a
different path, specify `-path=/my-path` in the CLI.

```shell-session
$ bao login -method=oidc port=8400 role=test

Complete the login via your OIDC provider. Launching browser to:

    https://myco.auth0.com/authorize?redirect_uri=http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A8400%2Foidc%2Fcallback&client_id=r3qXc2bix9eF...
```

The browser will open to the generated URL to complete the provider's login. The
URL may be entered manually if the browser cannot be automatically opened.

- `skip_browser` (default: "false"). Toggle the automatic launching of the default browser to the login URL.

The callback listener may be customized with the following optional parameters. These are typically
not required to be set:

- `mount` (default: "oidc")
- `callbackmode` (default: "client").  Mode of callback:
   "client" for connection to a port on the cli client,
   `direct` for direct connection to the OpenBao server,
   or "device" for device flow which has no callback.
- `listenaddress` (default: "localhost").  Only for `client` callback mode.
- `port` (default: 8250).  Only for `client` callback mode.
- `callbackhost` (default: the OpenBao's server and port in direct callback mode, else "localhost")
- `callbackmethod` (default: the method used for the OpenBao server in direct callback mode, else "http").
   The method to use in an OIDC `redirect_uri`.
- `callbackport` (default: value set for `port` in client callback mode, otherwise the port of the OpenBao
   server and an added `/v1/auth/<path>` where `<path>` is from the login -path option)
   This value is used in the `redirect_uri`, whereas
  `port` is the localhost port that the listener is using. These two may be different in advanced setups.

### OIDC provider configuration

The OIDC authentication flow has been successfully tested with a number of providers. A full
guide to configuring OAuth/OIDC applications is beyond the scope of OpenBao documentation, but a
collection of provider configuration steps has been collected to help get started:
[OIDC Provider Setup](/docs/auth/jwt/oidc-providers)

### OIDC configuration troubleshooting

This amount of configuration required for OIDC is relatively small, but it can be tricky to debug
why things aren't working. Some tips for setting up OIDC:

- If a role parameter (e.g. `bound_claims`) requires a map value, it can't be set individually using
  the OpenBao CLI. In these cases the best approach is to write the entire configuration as a single
  JSON object:

```text
bao write auth/oidc/role/demo -<<EOF
{
  "user_claim": "sub",
  "bound_audiences": "abc123",
  "role_type": "oidc",
  "policies": "demo",
  "ttl": "1h",
  "bound_claims": { "groups": ["mygroup/mysubgroup"] }
}
EOF
```

- Monitor OpenBao's log output. Important information about OIDC validation failures will be emitted.

- Ensure Redirect URIs are correct in OpenBao and on the provider. They need to match exactly. Check:
  http/https, 127.0.0.1/localhost, port numbers, whether trailing slashes are present.

- Start simple. The only claim configuration a role requires is `user_claim`. After authentication is
  known to work, you can add additional claims bindings and metadata copying.

- `bound_audiences` is optional for OIDC roles and typically not required. OIDC providers will use
  the client_id as the audience and OIDC validation expects this.

- Check your provider for what scopes are required in order to receive all
  of the information you need. The scopes "profile" and "groups" often need to be
  requested, and can be added by setting `oidc_scopes="profile,groups"` on the role.

- If you're seeing claim-related errors in logs, review the provider's docs very carefully to see
  how they're naming and structuring their claims. Depending on the provider, you may be able to
  construct a simple `curl` implicit grant request to obtain a JWT that you can inspect. An example
  of how to decode the JWT (in this case located in the "access_token" field of a JSON response):

  `cat jwt.json | jq -r .access_token | cut -d. -f2 | base64 -D`

- The [`verbose_oidc_logging`](/api-docs/auth/jwt#verbose_oidc_logging) role
  option is available which will log the received OIDC token to the _server_ logs if debug-level logging is enabled. This can
  be helpful when debugging provider setup and verifying that the received claims are what you expect.
  Since claims data is logged verbatim and may contain sensitive information, this option should not be
  used in production.

- Azure requires some additional configuration when a user is a member of more
  than 200 groups, described in [Azure-specific handling
  configuration](/docs/auth/jwt/oidc-providers/azuread#optional-azure-specific-configuration)

## JWT authentication

The authentication flow for roles of type "jwt" is simpler than OIDC since OpenBao
only needs to validate the provided JWT.

### JWT verification

JWT signatures will be verified against public keys from the issuer. This process can be done in
three different ways, though only one method may be configured for a single backend:

- **Static Keys**. A set of public keys is stored directly in the backend configuration.

- **JWKS**. A JSON Web Key Set ([JWKS](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7517)) URL (and optional
  certificate chain) is configured. Keys will be fetched from this endpoint during authentication.

- **OIDC Discovery**. An OIDC Discovery URL (and optional certificate chain) is configured. Keys
  will be fetched from this URL during authentication. When OIDC Discovery is used, OIDC validation
  criteria (e.g. `iss`, `aud`, etc.) will be applied.

If multiple methods are needed, another instance of the backend can be mounted and configured
at a different path.

### Via the CLI

The default path is `/jwt`. If this auth method was enabled at a
different path, specify `-path=/my-path` in the CLI.

```shell-session
$ bao write auth/jwt/login role=demo jwt=...
```

### Via the API

The default endpoint is `auth/jwt/login`. If this auth method was enabled
at a different path, use that value instead of `jwt`.

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data '{"jwt": "your_jwt", "role": "demo"}' \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/jwt/login
```

The response will contain a token at `auth.client_token`:

```json
{
  "auth": {
    "client_token": "38fe9691-e623-7238-f618-c94d4e7bc674",
    "accessor": "78e87a38-84ed-2692-538f-ca8b9f400ab3",
    "policies": ["default"],
    "metadata": {
      "role": "demo"
    },
    "lease_duration": 2764800,
    "renewable": true
  }
}
```

## Configuration

Auth methods must be configured in advance before users or machines can
authenticate. These steps are usually completed by an operator or configuration
management tool.

1. Enable the JWT auth method. Either the "jwt" or "oidc" name may be used. The
   backend will be mounted at the chosen name.

   ```text
   $ bao auth enable jwt
     or
   $ bao auth enable oidc
   ```

1. Use the `/config` endpoint to configure OpenBao. To support JWT roles, either local keys, a JWKS URL, or an OIDC
   Discovery URL must be present. For OIDC roles, OIDC Discovery URL, OIDC Client ID and OIDC Client Secret are required. For the
   list of available configuration options, please see the [API documentation](/api-docs/auth/jwt).

   ```text
   $ bao write auth/jwt/config \
       oidc_discovery_url="https://myco.auth0.com/" \
       oidc_client_id="m5i8bj3iofytj" \
       oidc_client_secret="f4ubv72nfiu23hnsj" \
       default_role="demo"
   ```

   If you need to perform JWT verification with JWT token validation, then leave the `oidc_client_id` and `oidc_client_secret` blank. 

   ```text
   $ bao write auth/jwt/config \
      oidc_discovery_url="https://MYDOMAIN.eu.auth0.com/" \
      oidc_client_id="" \
      oidc_client_secret="" \
  ```

1. Create a named role:

   ```text
   bao write auth/jwt/role/demo \
       allowed_redirect_uris="http://localhost:8250/oidc/callback" \
       bound_subject="r3qX9DljwFIWhsiqwFiu38209F10atW6@clients" \
       bound_audiences="https://vault.plugin.auth.jwt.test" \
       user_claim="https://vault/user" \
       groups_claim="https://vault/groups" \
       policies=webapps \
       ttl=1h
   ```

   This role authorizes JWTs with the given subject and audience claims, gives
   it the `webapps` policy, and uses the given user/groups claims to set up
   Identity aliases.

   For the complete list of configuration options, please see the API
   documentation.

### Bound claims

Once a JWT has been validated as being properly signed and not expired, the
authorization flow will validate that any configured "bound" parameters match.
In some cases there are dedicated parameters, for example `bound_subject`,
which must match the JWT's `sub` parameter. A role may also be configured to
check arbitrary claims through the `bound_claims` map. The map contains a set
of claims and their required values. For example, assume `bound_claims` is set
to:

```json
{
  "division": "Europe",
  "department": "Engineering"
}
```

Only JWTs containing both the "division" and "department" claims, and
respective matching values of "Europe" and "Engineering", would be authorized.
If the expected value is a list, the claim must match one of the items in the list.
To limit authorization to a set of email addresses:

```json
{
  "email": ["fred@example.com", "julie@example.com"]
}
```

Bound claims can optionally be configured with globs. See the [API documentation](/api-docs/auth/jwt#bound_claims_type) for more details.

### Claims as metadata

Data from claims can be copied into the resulting auth token and alias metadata by configuring `claim_mappings`. This role
parameter is a map of items to copy. The map elements are of the form: `"<JWT claim>":"<metadata key>"`. Assume
`claim_mappings` is set to:

```json
{
  "division": "organization",
  "department": "department"
}
```

This specifies that the value in the JWT claim "division" should be copied to the metadata key "organization". The JWT
"department" claim value will also be copied into metadata but will retain the key name. If a claim is configured in `claim_mappings`,
it must existing in the JWT or else the authentication will fail.

Note: the metadata key name "role" is reserved and may not be used for claim mappings.

### Claim specifications and JSON pointer

Some parameters (e.g. `bound_claims`, `groups_claim`, `claim_mappings`, `user_claim`) are
used to point to data within the JWT. If the desired key is at the top of level of the JWT,
the name can be provided directly. If it is nested at a lower level, a JSON Pointer may be
used.

Assume the following JSON data to be referenced:

```json
{
  "division": "North America",
  "groups": {
    "primary": "Engineering",
    "secondary": "Software"
  }
}
```

A parameter of `"division"` will reference "North America", as this is a top level key. A parameter
`"/groups/primary"` uses JSON Pointer syntax to reference "Engineering" at a lower level. Any valid
JSON Pointer can be used as a selector. Refer to the
[JSON Pointer RFC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6901) for a full description of the syntax.

## API

The JWT Auth Plugin has a full HTTP API. Please see the
[API docs](/api-docs/auth/jwt) for more details.

Commit message:

Add `show_qr` option to documentation
Signed-off-by: Philipp Stehle <philipp.stehle@secretz.io>

website/content/docs/auth/jwt/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
description: >-
  The JWT/OIDC auth method allows authentication using OIDC and user-provided
  JWTs
---

# JWT/OIDC auth method

:::warning

**Note**: This engine can use external X.509 certificates as part of TLS or signature validation.
   Verifying signatures against X.509 certificates that use SHA-1 is deprecated and is no longer
   usable without a workaround. See the
   [deprecation FAQ](/docs/deprecation/faq#q-what-is-the-impact-of-removing-support-for-x-509-certificates-with-signatures-that-use-sha-1)
   for more information.

:::

The `jwt` auth method can be used to authenticate with OpenBao using
[OIDC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenID_Connect) or by providing a
[JWT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON_Web_Token).

The OIDC method allows authentication via a configured OIDC provider using the
user's web browser. This method may be initiated from the OpenBao UI or the
command line. Alternatively, a JWT can be provided directly. The JWT is
cryptographically verified using locally-provided keys, or, if configured, an
OIDC Discovery service can be used to fetch the appropriate keys. The choice of
method is configured per role.

Both methods allow additional processing of the claims data in the JWT. Some of
the concepts common to both methods will be covered first, followed by specific
examples of OIDC and JWT usage.

## OIDC authentication

This section covers the setup and use of OIDC roles. If a JWT is to be provided directly,
refer to the [JWT Authentication](/docs/auth/jwt#jwt-authentication) section below. Basic
familiarity with [OIDC concepts](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2017/07/25/oidc-primer-part-1)
is assumed. The Authorization Code flow makes use of the Proof Key for Code
Exchange (PKCE) extension.

OpenBao includes two built-in OIDC login flows: the OpenBao UI, and the CLI
using a `bao login`.

### Redirect URIs

Unless you are using `callbackmode=device`,
an important part of OIDC role configuration is properly setting redirect URIs. This must be
done both in OpenBao and with the OIDC provider, and these configurations must align. The
redirect URIs are specified for a role with the `allowed_redirect_uris` parameter. There are
different redirect URIs to configure the OpenBao UI and CLI flows, so one or both will need to
be set up depending on the installation.

**CLI**

If you plan to support authentication via `bao login -method=oidc` and
are not using `callbackmode=device`, a redirect URI with a path ending
in `oidc/callback` must be set. With the default `callbackmode=client`
this can usually be `http://localhost:8250/oidc/callback`.
With `callbackmode=direct` this should be a URI of the form:

`https://{host:port}/v1/auth/{path}/oidc/callback`

where "host:port" is the OpenBao server name and port, and "path" is the path the JWT
backend is mounted at (e.g. "oidc" or "jwt").

Logins via the CLI may
specify a different host and/or listening port if needed, and a URI with this host/port must match one
of the configured redirected URIs. These same URIs must be added to the provider as well.

**OpenBao UI**

Logging in via the OpenBao UI requires a redirect URI of the form:

`https://{host:port}/ui/vault/auth/{path}/oidc/callback`

The "host:port" must be correct for the OpenBao server, and "path" must match the path the JWT
backend is mounted at (e.g. "oidc" or "jwt").

If the [oidc_response_mode](/api-docs/auth/jwt#oidc_response_mode) is set to `form_post`, then
logging in via the OpenBao UI requires a redirect URI of the same form as the direct callback mode:

`https://{host:port}/v1/auth/{path}/oidc/callback`

### OIDC login (OpenBao UI)

1. Select the "OIDC" login method.
1. Enter a role name if necessary.
1. Press "Sign In" and complete the authentication with the configured provider.

### OIDC login (CLI)

The CLI login defaults to path of `/oidc`. If this auth method was enabled at a
different path, specify `-path=/my-path` in the CLI.

```shell-session
$ bao login -method=oidc port=8400 role=test

Complete the login via your OIDC provider. Launching browser to:

    https://myco.auth0.com/authorize?redirect_uri=http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A8400%2Foidc%2Fcallback&client_id=r3qXc2bix9eF...
```

The browser will open to the generated URL to complete the provider's login. The
URL may be entered manually if the browser cannot be automatically opened.

- `skip_browser` (default: "false"). Toggle the automatic launching of the default browser to the login URL.
- `show_qr` (default: "false"). If enabled, a QR code of the login URL will be displayed in the terminal.
   Requires UTF-8 support from your terminal emulator.

The callback listener may be customized with the following optional parameters. These are typically
not required to be set:

- `mount` (default: "oidc")
- `callbackmode` (default: "client").  Mode of callback:
   "client" for connection to a port on the cli client,
   `direct` for direct connection to the OpenBao server,
   or "device" for device flow which has no callback.
- `listenaddress` (default: "localhost").  Only for `client` callback mode.
- `port` (default: 8250).  Only for `client` callback mode.
- `callbackhost` (default: the OpenBao's server and port in direct callback mode, else "localhost")
- `callbackmethod` (default: the method used for the OpenBao server in direct callback mode, else "http").
   The method to use in an OIDC `redirect_uri`.
- `callbackport` (default: value set for `port` in client callback mode, otherwise the port of the OpenBao
   server and an added `/v1/auth/<path>` where `<path>` is from the login -path option)
   This value is used in the `redirect_uri`, whereas
  `port` is the localhost port that the listener is using. These two may be different in advanced setups.

### OIDC provider configuration

The OIDC authentication flow has been successfully tested with a number of providers. A full
guide to configuring OAuth/OIDC applications is beyond the scope of OpenBao documentation, but a
collection of provider configuration steps has been collected to help get started:
[OIDC Provider Setup](/docs/auth/jwt/oidc-providers)

### OIDC configuration troubleshooting

This amount of configuration required for OIDC is relatively small, but it can be tricky to debug
why things aren't working. Some tips for setting up OIDC:

- If a role parameter (e.g. `bound_claims`) requires a map value, it can't be set individually using
  the OpenBao CLI. In these cases the best approach is to write the entire configuration as a single
  JSON object:

```text
bao write auth/oidc/role/demo -<<EOF
{
  "user_claim": "sub",
  "bound_audiences": "abc123",
  "role_type": "oidc",
  "policies": "demo",
  "ttl": "1h",
  "bound_claims": { "groups": ["mygroup/mysubgroup"] }
}
EOF
```

- Monitor OpenBao's log output. Important information about OIDC validation failures will be emitted.

- Ensure Redirect URIs are correct in OpenBao and on the provider. They need to match exactly. Check:
  http/https, 127.0.0.1/localhost, port numbers, whether trailing slashes are present.

- Start simple. The only claim configuration a role requires is `user_claim`. After authentication is
  known to work, you can add additional claims bindings and metadata copying.

- `bound_audiences` is optional for OIDC roles and typically not required. OIDC providers will use
  the client_id as the audience and OIDC validation expects this.

- Check your provider for what scopes are required in order to receive all
  of the information you need. The scopes "profile" and "groups" often need to be
  requested, and can be added by setting `oidc_scopes="profile,groups"` on the role.

- If you're seeing claim-related errors in logs, review the provider's docs very carefully to see
  how they're naming and structuring their claims. Depending on the provider, you may be able to
  construct a simple `curl` implicit grant request to obtain a JWT that you can inspect. An example
  of how to decode the JWT (in this case located in the "access_token" field of a JSON response):

  `cat jwt.json | jq -r .access_token | cut -d. -f2 | base64 -D`

- The [`verbose_oidc_logging`](/api-docs/auth/jwt#verbose_oidc_logging) role
  option is available which will log the received OIDC token to the _server_ logs if debug-level logging is enabled. This can
  be helpful when debugging provider setup and verifying that the received claims are what you expect.
  Since claims data is logged verbatim and may contain sensitive information, this option should not be
  used in production.

- Azure requires some additional configuration when a user is a member of more
  than 200 groups, described in [Azure-specific handling
  configuration](/docs/auth/jwt/oidc-providers/azuread#optional-azure-specific-configuration)

## JWT authentication

The authentication flow for roles of type "jwt" is simpler than OIDC since OpenBao
only needs to validate the provided JWT.

### JWT verification

JWT signatures will be verified against public keys from the issuer. This process can be done in
three different ways, though only one method may be configured for a single backend:

- **Static Keys**. A set of public keys is stored directly in the backend configuration.

- **JWKS**. A JSON Web Key Set ([JWKS](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7517)) URL (and optional
  certificate chain) is configured. Keys will be fetched from this endpoint during authentication.

- **OIDC Discovery**. An OIDC Discovery URL (and optional certificate chain) is configured. Keys
  will be fetched from this URL during authentication. When OIDC Discovery is used, OIDC validation
  criteria (e.g. `iss`, `aud`, etc.) will be applied.

If multiple methods are needed, another instance of the backend can be mounted and configured
at a different path.

### Via the CLI

The default path is `/jwt`. If this auth method was enabled at a
different path, specify `-path=/my-path` in the CLI.

```shell-session
$ bao write auth/jwt/login role=demo jwt=...
```

### Via the API

The default endpoint is `auth/jwt/login`. If this auth method was enabled
at a different path, use that value instead of `jwt`.

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data '{"jwt": "your_jwt", "role": "demo"}' \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/jwt/login
```

The response will contain a token at `auth.client_token`:

```json
{
  "auth": {
    "client_token": "38fe9691-e623-7238-f618-c94d4e7bc674",
    "accessor": "78e87a38-84ed-2692-538f-ca8b9f400ab3",
    "policies": ["default"],
    "metadata": {
      "role": "demo"
    },
    "lease_duration": 2764800,
    "renewable": true
  }
}
```

## Configuration

Auth methods must be configured in advance before users or machines can
authenticate. These steps are usually completed by an operator or configuration
management tool.

1. Enable the JWT auth method. Either the "jwt" or "oidc" name may be used. The
   backend will be mounted at the chosen name.

   ```text
   $ bao auth enable jwt
     or
   $ bao auth enable oidc
   ```

1. Use the `/config` endpoint to configure OpenBao. To support JWT roles, either local keys, a JWKS URL, or an OIDC
   Discovery URL must be present. For OIDC roles, OIDC Discovery URL, OIDC Client ID and OIDC Client Secret are required. For the
   list of available configuration options, please see the [API documentation](/api-docs/auth/jwt).

   ```text
   $ bao write auth/jwt/config \
       oidc_discovery_url="https://myco.auth0.com/" \
       oidc_client_id="m5i8bj3iofytj" \
       oidc_client_secret="f4ubv72nfiu23hnsj" \
       default_role="demo"
   ```

   If you need to perform JWT verification with JWT token validation, then leave the `oidc_client_id` and `oidc_client_secret` blank. 

   ```text
   $ bao write auth/jwt/config \
      oidc_discovery_url="https://MYDOMAIN.eu.auth0.com/" \
      oidc_client_id="" \
      oidc_client_secret="" \
  ```

1. Create a named role:

   ```text
   bao write auth/jwt/role/demo \
       allowed_redirect_uris="http://localhost:8250/oidc/callback" \
       bound_subject="r3qX9DljwFIWhsiqwFiu38209F10atW6@clients" \
       bound_audiences="https://vault.plugin.auth.jwt.test" \
       user_claim="https://vault/user" \
       groups_claim="https://vault/groups" \
       policies=webapps \
       ttl=1h
   ```

   This role authorizes JWTs with the given subject and audience claims, gives
   it the `webapps` policy, and uses the given user/groups claims to set up
   Identity aliases.

   For the complete list of configuration options, please see the API
   documentation.

### Bound claims

Once a JWT has been validated as being properly signed and not expired, the
authorization flow will validate that any configured "bound" parameters match.
In some cases there are dedicated parameters, for example `bound_subject`,
which must match the JWT's `sub` parameter. A role may also be configured to
check arbitrary claims through the `bound_claims` map. The map contains a set
of claims and their required values. For example, assume `bound_claims` is set
to:

```json
{
  "division": "Europe",
  "department": "Engineering"
}
```

Only JWTs containing both the "division" and "department" claims, and
respective matching values of "Europe" and "Engineering", would be authorized.
If the expected value is a list, the claim must match one of the items in the list.
To limit authorization to a set of email addresses:

```json
{
  "email": ["fred@example.com", "julie@example.com"]
}
```

Bound claims can optionally be configured with globs. See the [API documentation](/api-docs/auth/jwt#bound_claims_type) for more details.

### Claims as metadata

Data from claims can be copied into the resulting auth token and alias metadata by configuring `claim_mappings`. This role
parameter is a map of items to copy. The map elements are of the form: `"<JWT claim>":"<metadata key>"`. Assume
`claim_mappings` is set to:

```json
{
  "division": "organization",
  "department": "department"
}
```

This specifies that the value in the JWT claim "division" should be copied to the metadata key "organization". The JWT
"department" claim value will also be copied into metadata but will retain the key name. If a claim is configured in `claim_mappings`,
it must existing in the JWT or else the authentication will fail.

Note: the metadata key name "role" is reserved and may not be used for claim mappings.

### Claim specifications and JSON pointer

Some parameters (e.g. `bound_claims`, `groups_claim`, `claim_mappings`, `user_claim`) are
used to point to data within the JWT. If the desired key is at the top of level of the JWT,
the name can be provided directly. If it is nested at a lower level, a JSON Pointer may be
used.

Assume the following JSON data to be referenced:

```json
{
  "division": "North America",
  "groups": {
    "primary": "Engineering",
    "secondary": "Software"
  }
}
```

A parameter of `"division"` will reference "North America", as this is a top level key. A parameter
`"/groups/primary"` uses JSON Pointer syntax to reference "Engineering" at a lower level. Any valid
JSON Pointer can be used as a selector. Refer to the
[JSON Pointer RFC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6901) for a full description of the syntax.

## API

The JWT Auth Plugin has a full HTTP API. Please see the
[API docs](/api-docs/auth/jwt) for more details.
