website/content/docs/agent-and-proxy/proxy/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
description: |-
  OpenBao Proxy is a daemon that can be used to perform some OpenBao
  functionality automatically, and act as a proxy for OpenBao's APIs.
---

# What is OpenBao Proxy?

OpenBao Proxy aims to remove the initial hurdle to adopt OpenBao by providing a
more scalable and simpler way for applications to integrate with OpenBao.
OpenBao Proxy acts as an [API Proxy][apiproxy] for OpenBao, and can optionally allow
or force interacting clients to use its [automatically authenticated token][autoauth].

OpenBao Proxy is a client daemon that provides the following features:

- [Auto-Auth][autoauth] - Automatically authenticate to OpenBao and manage the
token renewal process for locally-retrieved dynamic secrets.
- [API Proxy][apiproxy] - Acts as a proxy for OpenBao's API,
optionally using (or forcing the use of) the Auto-Auth token.
- [Caching][caching] - Allows client-side caching of responses containing newly
created tokens and responses containing leased secrets generated off of these
newly created tokens. The agent also manages the renewals of the cached tokens and leases.

## Auto-Auth

OpenBao Proxy allows easy authentication to OpenBao in a wide variety of
environments. Please see the [Auto-Auth docs][autoauth]
for information.

Auto-Auth functionality takes place within an `auto_auth` configuration stanza.

## API proxy

OpenBao Proxy's primary purpose is to act as an API proxy for OpenBao, allowing you to talk to OpenBao's
API via a listener. It can be configured to optionally allow or force the automatic use of
the Auto-Auth token for these requests. Please see the [API Proxy docs][apiproxy]
for more information.

API Proxy functionality takes place within a defined `listener`, and its behaviour can be configured with an
[`api_proxy` stanza](apiproxy.mdx#configuration-api_proxy).

## Caching

OpenBao Proxy allows client-side caching of responses containing newly created tokens
and responses containing leased secrets generated off of these newly created tokens.
Please see the [Caching docs][caching] for information.

## API

### Quit

This endpoint triggers shutdown of the proxy. By default, it is disabled, and can
be enabled per listener using the [`proxy_api`][proxy-api] stanza. It is recommended
to only enable this on trusted interfaces, as it does not require any authorization to use.

| Method | Path             |
| :----- | :--------------- |
| `POST` | `/proxy/v1/quit` |

### Cache

See the [caching](caching/index.mdx#api) page for details on the cache API.

## Configuration

### Command options

- `-log-level` `(string: "info")` - Log verbosity level. Supported values (in
order of descending detail) are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, and `error`. This can
also be specified via the `BAO_LOG_LEVEL` environment variable.

- `-log-format` `(string: "standard")` - Log format. Supported values
are `standard` and `json`. This can also be specified via the
`BAO_LOG_FORMAT` environment variable.

- `-log-file` - the absolute path where OpenBao Proxy should save
  log messages. Paths that end with a path separator use the default file name,
  `proxy.log`. Paths that do not end with a file extension use the default
  `.log` extension. If the log file rotates, OpenBao Proxy appends the current
  timestamp to the file name at the time of rotation. For example:

  `log-file` | Full log file | Rotated log file
  ---------- | ------------- | ----------------
  `/var/log` | `/var/log/proxy.log` | `/var/log/proxy-{timestamp}.log`
  `/var/log/my-diary` | `/var/log/my-diary.log` | `/var/log/my-diary-{timestamp}.log`
  `/var/log/my-diary.txt` | `/var/log/my-diary.txt` | `/var/log/my-diary-{timestamp}.txt`

- `-log-rotate-bytes` - to specify the number of
bytes that should be written to a log before it needs to be rotated. Unless specified,
there is no limit to the number of bytes that can be written to a log file.

- `-log-rotate-duration` - to specify the maximum
duration a log should be written to before it needs to be rotated. Must be a duration
value such as 30s. Defaults to 24h.

- `-log-rotate-max-files` - to specify the maximum
number of older log file archives to keep. Defaults to `0` (no files are ever deleted).
Set to `-1` to discard old log files when a new one is created.

### Configuration file options

These are the currently-available general configuration options:

- `vault` <code>([vault][vault]: \<optional>)</code> - Specifies the remote OpenBao server the Proxy connects to.

- `auto_auth` <code>([auto_auth][autoauth]: \<optional>)</code> - Specifies the method and other options used for Auto-Auth functionality.

- `api_proxy` <code>([api_proxy][apiproxy]: \<optional>)</code> - Specifies options used for API Proxy functionality.

- `cache` <code>([cache][caching]: \<optional>)</code> - Specifies options used for Caching functionality.

- `listener` <code>([listener][listener]: \<optional>)</code> - Specifies the addresses and ports on which the Proxy will respond to requests.

  :::warning

  **Note:** On `SIGHUP` (`kill -SIGHUP $(pidof bao)`), OpenBao Proxy will
  attempt to reload listener TLS configuration. This method can be used to
  refresh certificates used by OpenBao Proxy without having to restart its
  process.

  :::

- `pid_file` `(string: "")` - Path to the file in which the Proxy's Process ID
(PID) should be stored

- `exit_after_auth` `(bool: false)` - If set to `true`, the proxy will exit
with code `0` after a single successful auth, where success means that a
token was retrieved and all sinks successfully wrote it

- `disable_idle_connections` `(string array: [])` - A list of strings that disables idle connections for various features in OpenBao Proxy.
Valid values include: `auto-auth`, and `proxying`. Can also be configured by setting the `VAULT_PROXY_DISABLE_IDLE_CONNECTIONS`
environment variable as a comma separated string. This environment variable will override any values found in a configuration file.

- `disable_keep_alives` `(string array: [])` - A list of strings that disables keep alives for various features in OpenBao Agent.
Valid values include: `auto-auth`, and `proxying`. Can also be configured by setting the `VAULT_PROXY_DISABLE_KEEP_ALIVES`
environment variable as a comma separated string. This environment variable will override any values found in a configuration file.

- `template` <code>(template: \<optional>)</code> - Specifies options used for templating OpenBao secrets to files.

- `template_config` <code>(template_config: \<optional>)</code> - Specifies templating engine behavior.

- `telemetry` <code>([telemetry][telemetry]: \<optional>)</code> – Specifies the telemetry
reporting system. See the [telemetry Stanza](index.mdx#telemetry-stanza) section below
for a list of metrics specific to Proxy.

- `log_level` - Equivalent to the `-log-level` command-line flag.

  :::warning

  **Note:** On `SIGHUP` (`kill -SIGHUP $(pidof bao)`), OpenBao Proxy will update
  the log level to the value specified by configuration file (including
  overriding values set using CLI or environment variable parameters).

  :::

- `log_format` - Equivalent to the `-log-format` command-line flag.

- `log_file` - Equivalent to the `-log-file` command-line flag.

- `log_rotate_duration` - Equivalent to the `-log-rotate-duration` command-line flag.

- `log_rotate_bytes` - Equivalent to the `-log-rotate-bytes` command-line flag.

- `log_rotate_max_files` - Equivalent to the `-log-rotate-max-files`
  command-line flag.

### vault stanza

There can at most be one top level `vault` block, and it has the following
configuration entries:

- `address` `(string: <optional>)` - The address of the OpenBao server to
connect to. This should be a Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) or IP
such as `https://openbao-fqdn:8200` or `https://172.16.9.8:8200`.
This value can be overridden by setting the `VAULT_ADDR` environment variable.

- `ca_cert` `(string: <optional>)` - Path on the local disk to a single PEM-encoded
CA certificate to verify the OpenBao server's SSL certificate. This value can
be overridden by setting the `VAULT_CACERT` environment variable.

- `ca_path` `(string: <optional>)` - Path on the local disk to a directory of
PEM-encoded CA certificates to verify the OpenBao server's SSL certificate.
This value can be overridden by setting the `VAULT_CAPATH` environment
variable.

- `client_cert` `(string: <optional>)` - Path on the local disk to a single
PEM-encoded CA certificate to use for TLS authentication to the OpenBao server.
This value can be overridden by setting the `VAULT_CLIENT_CERT` environment
variable.

- `client_key` `(string: <optional>)` - Path on the local disk to a single
PEM-encoded private key matching the client certificate from `client_cert`.
This value can be overridden by setting the `VAULT_CLIENT_KEY` environment
variable.

- `tls_skip_verify` `(string: <optional>)` - Disable verification of TLS
certificates. Using this option is highly discouraged as it decreases the
security of data transmissions to and from the OpenBao server. This value can
be overridden by setting the `VAULT_SKIP_VERIFY` environment variable.

- `tls_server_name` `(string: <optional>)` - Name to use as the SNI host when
connecting via TLS. This value can be overridden by setting the
`VAULT_TLS_SERVER_NAME` environment variable.

#### retry stanza

The `vault` stanza may contain a `retry` stanza that controls how failing OpenBao
requests are handled. Auto-auth, however, has its own notion of retrying and is not
affected by this section.

Here are the options for the `retry` stanza:

- `num_retries` `(int: 12)` - Specify how many times a failing request will
be retried. A value of `0` translates to the default, i.e. 12 retries.
A value of `-1` disables retries. The environment variable `VAULT_MAX_RETRIES`
overrides this setting.

Requests originating from the proxy cache will only be retried if they resulted
in specific HTTP result codes: any 50x code except 501 ("not implemented").
Requests coming from the template subsystem are retried regardless of the
failure.

### listener stanza

OpenBao Proxy supports one or more [listener][listener_main] stanzas. Listeners
can be configured with or without [caching][caching], but will use the cache if it
has been configured, and will enable the [API proxy][apiproxy]. In addition to the standard
listener configuration, a Proxy's listener configuration also supports the following:

- `require_request_header` `(bool: false)` - Require that all incoming HTTP
requests on this listener must have an `X-Vault-Request: true` header entry.
Using this option offers an additional layer of protection from Server Side
Request Forgery attacks. Requests on the listener that do not have the proper
`X-Vault-Request` header will fail, with a HTTP response status code of `412: Precondition Failed`.

- `role` `(string: default)` - `role` determines which APIs the listener serves.
It can be configured to `metrics_only` to serve only metrics, or the default role, `default`,
which serves everything (including metrics). The `require_request_header` does not apply
to `metrics_only` listeners.

- `proxy_api` <code>([proxy_api][proxy-api]: \<optional>)</code> - Manages optional Proxy API endpoints.

#### proxy_api stanza

- `enable_quit` `(bool: false)` - If set to `true`, the Proxy will enable the [quit](index.mdx#quit) API.

### telemetry stanza

OpenBao Proxy supports the [telemetry][telemetry] stanza and collects various
runtime metrics about its performance, the auto-auth and the cache status:

| Metric                           | Description                                          | Type    |
| -------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `vault.proxy.auth.failure`       | Number of authentication failures                    | counter |
| `vault.proxy.auth.success`       | Number of authentication successes                   | counter |
| `vault.proxy.proxy.success`      | Number of requests successfully proxied              | counter |
| `vault.proxy.proxy.client_error` | Number of requests for which OpenBao returned an error | counter |
| `vault.proxy.proxy.error`        | Number of requests the proxy failed to proxy         | counter |
| `vault.proxy.cache.hit`          | Number of cache hits                                 | counter |
| `vault.proxy.cache.miss`         | Number of cache misses                               | counter |

## Start OpenBao proxy

To run OpenBao Proxy:

1. [Download](/downloads) the OpenBao binary where the client application runs
(virtual machine, Kubernetes pod, etc.)

1. Create an OpenBao Proxy configuration file. (See the [Example
Configuration](#example-configuration) section for an example configuration.)

1. Start an OpenBao Proxy with the configuration file.

**Example:**

```shell-session
$ bao proxy -config=/etc/openbao/proxy-config.hcl
   ```

To get help, run:

```shell-session
$ bao proxy -h
   ```

As with OpenBao, the `-config` flag can be used in three different ways:

- Use the flag once to name the path to a single specific configuration file.
- Use the flag multiple times to name multiple configuration files, which will be composed at runtime.
- Use the flag to name a directory of configuration files, the contents of which will be composed at runtime.

## Example configuration

An example configuration, with very contrived values, follows:

```hcl
pid_file = "./pidfile"

vault {
  address = "https://openbao-fqdn:8200"
  retry {
    num_retries = 5
  }
}

auto_auth {
  method "kubernetes" {
    config = {
      role = "foobar"
    }
  }

  sink "file" {
    config = {
      path = "/tmp/file-foo"
    }
  }

  sink "file" {
    wrap_ttl = "5m"
    aad_env_var = "TEST_AAD_ENV"
    dh_type = "curve25519"
    dh_path = "/tmp/file-foo-dhpath2"
    config = {
      path = "/tmp/file-bar"
    }
  }
}

cache {
  // An empty cache stanza still enables caching
}

api_proxy {
  use_auto_auth_token = true
}

listener "unix" {
  address = "/path/to/socket"
  tls_disable = true

  agent_api {
    enable_quit = true
  }
}

listener "tcp" {
  address = "127.0.0.1:8100"
  tls_disable = true
}
```

[vault]: #vault-stanza
[autoauth]: ../autoauth/index.mdx
[caching]: caching/index.mdx
[apiproxy]: apiproxy.mdx
[proxy-api]: #proxy_api-stanza
[listener]: #listener-stanza
[listener_main]: ../../configuration/listener/tcp.mdx
[telemetry]: ../../configuration/telemetry.mdx

Commit message:

Add BAO_{AGENT,PROXY,MIGRATE}_CONFIG_PATH variables (#2153) (#2306)
* Implement environment variable BAO_AGENT_CONFIG_PATH, BAO_PROXY_CONFIG_PATH, BAO_OP_MIGRATE_CONFIG_PATH



* Add changelog



* Update command/operator_migrate.go




* Fixup BAO_MIGRATE_CONFIG_PATH



* Remove duplicate bullet point



---------

Signed-off-by: Kyounghoon Jang <matkimchi_@naver.com>
Signed-off-by: kyounghoonJang <matkimchi_@naver.com>
Signed-off-by: Jonas Köhnen <jonas.koehnen@sap.com>
Co-authored-by: kyounghoonJang <matkimchi_@naver.com>

website/content/docs/agent-and-proxy/proxy/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
description: |-
  OpenBao Proxy is a daemon that can be used to perform some OpenBao
  functionality automatically, and act as a proxy for OpenBao's APIs.
---

# What is OpenBao Proxy?

OpenBao Proxy aims to remove the initial hurdle to adopt OpenBao by providing a
more scalable and simpler way for applications to integrate with OpenBao.
OpenBao Proxy acts as an [API Proxy][apiproxy] for OpenBao, and can optionally allow
or force interacting clients to use its [automatically authenticated token][autoauth].

OpenBao Proxy is a client daemon that provides the following features:

- [Auto-Auth][autoauth] - Automatically authenticate to OpenBao and manage the
token renewal process for locally-retrieved dynamic secrets.
- [API Proxy][apiproxy] - Acts as a proxy for OpenBao's API,
optionally using (or forcing the use of) the Auto-Auth token.
- [Caching][caching] - Allows client-side caching of responses containing newly
created tokens and responses containing leased secrets generated off of these
newly created tokens. The agent also manages the renewals of the cached tokens and leases.

## Auto-Auth

OpenBao Proxy allows easy authentication to OpenBao in a wide variety of
environments. Please see the [Auto-Auth docs][autoauth]
for information.

Auto-Auth functionality takes place within an `auto_auth` configuration stanza.

## API proxy

OpenBao Proxy's primary purpose is to act as an API proxy for OpenBao, allowing you to talk to OpenBao's
API via a listener. It can be configured to optionally allow or force the automatic use of
the Auto-Auth token for these requests. Please see the [API Proxy docs][apiproxy]
for more information.

API Proxy functionality takes place within a defined `listener`, and its behaviour can be configured with an
[`api_proxy` stanza](apiproxy.mdx#configuration-api_proxy).

## Caching

OpenBao Proxy allows client-side caching of responses containing newly created tokens
and responses containing leased secrets generated off of these newly created tokens.
Please see the [Caching docs][caching] for information.

## API

### Quit

This endpoint triggers shutdown of the proxy. By default, it is disabled, and can
be enabled per listener using the [`proxy_api`][proxy-api] stanza. It is recommended
to only enable this on trusted interfaces, as it does not require any authorization to use.

| Method | Path             |
| :----- | :--------------- |
| `POST` | `/proxy/v1/quit` |

### Cache

See the [caching](caching/index.mdx#api) page for details on the cache API.

## Configuration

### Command options

- `-log-level` `(string: "info")` - Log verbosity level. Supported values (in
order of descending detail) are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, and `error`. This can
also be specified via the `BAO_LOG_LEVEL` environment variable.

- `-log-format` `(string: "standard")` - Log format. Supported values
are `standard` and `json`. This can also be specified via the
`BAO_LOG_FORMAT` environment variable.

- `-log-file` - the absolute path where OpenBao Proxy should save
  log messages. Paths that end with a path separator use the default file name,
  `proxy.log`. Paths that do not end with a file extension use the default
  `.log` extension. If the log file rotates, OpenBao Proxy appends the current
  timestamp to the file name at the time of rotation. For example:

  `log-file` | Full log file | Rotated log file
  ---------- | ------------- | ----------------
  `/var/log` | `/var/log/proxy.log` | `/var/log/proxy-{timestamp}.log`
  `/var/log/my-diary` | `/var/log/my-diary.log` | `/var/log/my-diary-{timestamp}.log`
  `/var/log/my-diary.txt` | `/var/log/my-diary.txt` | `/var/log/my-diary-{timestamp}.txt`

- `-log-rotate-bytes` - to specify the number of
bytes that should be written to a log before it needs to be rotated. Unless specified,
there is no limit to the number of bytes that can be written to a log file.

- `-log-rotate-duration` - to specify the maximum
duration a log should be written to before it needs to be rotated. Must be a duration
value such as 30s. Defaults to 24h.

- `-log-rotate-max-files` - to specify the maximum
number of older log file archives to keep. Defaults to `0` (no files are ever deleted).
Set to `-1` to discard old log files when a new one is created.

### Configuration file options

These are the currently-available general configuration options:

- `vault` <code>([vault][vault]: \<optional>)</code> - Specifies the remote OpenBao server the Proxy connects to.

- `auto_auth` <code>([auto_auth][autoauth]: \<optional>)</code> - Specifies the method and other options used for Auto-Auth functionality.

- `api_proxy` <code>([api_proxy][apiproxy]: \<optional>)</code> - Specifies options used for API Proxy functionality.

- `cache` <code>([cache][caching]: \<optional>)</code> - Specifies options used for Caching functionality.

- `listener` <code>([listener][listener]: \<optional>)</code> - Specifies the addresses and ports on which the Proxy will respond to requests.

  :::warning

  **Note:** On `SIGHUP` (`kill -SIGHUP $(pidof bao)`), OpenBao Proxy will
  attempt to reload listener TLS configuration. This method can be used to
  refresh certificates used by OpenBao Proxy without having to restart its
  process.

  :::

- `pid_file` `(string: "")` - Path to the file in which the Proxy's Process ID
(PID) should be stored

- `exit_after_auth` `(bool: false)` - If set to `true`, the proxy will exit
with code `0` after a single successful auth, where success means that a
token was retrieved and all sinks successfully wrote it

- `disable_idle_connections` `(string array: [])` - A list of strings that disables idle connections for various features in OpenBao Proxy.
Valid values include: `auto-auth`, and `proxying`. Can also be configured by setting the `VAULT_PROXY_DISABLE_IDLE_CONNECTIONS`
environment variable as a comma separated string. This environment variable will override any values found in a configuration file.

- `disable_keep_alives` `(string array: [])` - A list of strings that disables keep alives for various features in OpenBao Agent.
Valid values include: `auto-auth`, and `proxying`. Can also be configured by setting the `VAULT_PROXY_DISABLE_KEEP_ALIVES`
environment variable as a comma separated string. This environment variable will override any values found in a configuration file.

- `template` <code>(template: \<optional>)</code> - Specifies options used for templating OpenBao secrets to files.

- `template_config` <code>(template_config: \<optional>)</code> - Specifies templating engine behavior.

- `telemetry` <code>([telemetry][telemetry]: \<optional>)</code> – Specifies the telemetry
reporting system. See the [telemetry Stanza](index.mdx#telemetry-stanza) section below
for a list of metrics specific to Proxy.

- `log_level` - Equivalent to the `-log-level` command-line flag.

  :::warning

  **Note:** On `SIGHUP` (`kill -SIGHUP $(pidof bao)`), OpenBao Proxy will update
  the log level to the value specified by configuration file (including
  overriding values set using CLI or environment variable parameters).

  :::

- `log_format` - Equivalent to the `-log-format` command-line flag.

- `log_file` - Equivalent to the `-log-file` command-line flag.

- `log_rotate_duration` - Equivalent to the `-log-rotate-duration` command-line flag.

- `log_rotate_bytes` - Equivalent to the `-log-rotate-bytes` command-line flag.

- `log_rotate_max_files` - Equivalent to the `-log-rotate-max-files`
  command-line flag.

### vault stanza

There can at most be one top level `vault` block, and it has the following
configuration entries:

- `address` `(string: <optional>)` - The address of the OpenBao server to
connect to. This should be a Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) or IP
such as `https://openbao-fqdn:8200` or `https://172.16.9.8:8200`.
This value can be overridden by setting the `VAULT_ADDR` environment variable.

- `ca_cert` `(string: <optional>)` - Path on the local disk to a single PEM-encoded
CA certificate to verify the OpenBao server's SSL certificate. This value can
be overridden by setting the `VAULT_CACERT` environment variable.

- `ca_path` `(string: <optional>)` - Path on the local disk to a directory of
PEM-encoded CA certificates to verify the OpenBao server's SSL certificate.
This value can be overridden by setting the `VAULT_CAPATH` environment
variable.

- `client_cert` `(string: <optional>)` - Path on the local disk to a single
PEM-encoded CA certificate to use for TLS authentication to the OpenBao server.
This value can be overridden by setting the `VAULT_CLIENT_CERT` environment
variable.

- `client_key` `(string: <optional>)` - Path on the local disk to a single
PEM-encoded private key matching the client certificate from `client_cert`.
This value can be overridden by setting the `VAULT_CLIENT_KEY` environment
variable.

- `tls_skip_verify` `(string: <optional>)` - Disable verification of TLS
certificates. Using this option is highly discouraged as it decreases the
security of data transmissions to and from the OpenBao server. This value can
be overridden by setting the `VAULT_SKIP_VERIFY` environment variable.

- `tls_server_name` `(string: <optional>)` - Name to use as the SNI host when
connecting via TLS. This value can be overridden by setting the
`VAULT_TLS_SERVER_NAME` environment variable.

#### retry stanza

The `vault` stanza may contain a `retry` stanza that controls how failing OpenBao
requests are handled. Auto-auth, however, has its own notion of retrying and is not
affected by this section.

Here are the options for the `retry` stanza:

- `num_retries` `(int: 12)` - Specify how many times a failing request will
be retried. A value of `0` translates to the default, i.e. 12 retries.
A value of `-1` disables retries. The environment variable `VAULT_MAX_RETRIES`
overrides this setting.

Requests originating from the proxy cache will only be retried if they resulted
in specific HTTP result codes: any 50x code except 501 ("not implemented").
Requests coming from the template subsystem are retried regardless of the
failure.

### listener stanza

OpenBao Proxy supports one or more [listener][listener_main] stanzas. Listeners
can be configured with or without [caching][caching], but will use the cache if it
has been configured, and will enable the [API proxy][apiproxy]. In addition to the standard
listener configuration, a Proxy's listener configuration also supports the following:

- `require_request_header` `(bool: false)` - Require that all incoming HTTP
requests on this listener must have an `X-Vault-Request: true` header entry.
Using this option offers an additional layer of protection from Server Side
Request Forgery attacks. Requests on the listener that do not have the proper
`X-Vault-Request` header will fail, with a HTTP response status code of `412: Precondition Failed`.

- `role` `(string: default)` - `role` determines which APIs the listener serves.
It can be configured to `metrics_only` to serve only metrics, or the default role, `default`,
which serves everything (including metrics). The `require_request_header` does not apply
to `metrics_only` listeners.

- `proxy_api` <code>([proxy_api][proxy-api]: \<optional>)</code> - Manages optional Proxy API endpoints.

#### proxy_api stanza

- `enable_quit` `(bool: false)` - If set to `true`, the Proxy will enable the [quit](index.mdx#quit) API.

### telemetry stanza

OpenBao Proxy supports the [telemetry][telemetry] stanza and collects various
runtime metrics about its performance, the auto-auth and the cache status:

| Metric                           | Description                                          | Type    |
| -------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `vault.proxy.auth.failure`       | Number of authentication failures                    | counter |
| `vault.proxy.auth.success`       | Number of authentication successes                   | counter |
| `vault.proxy.proxy.success`      | Number of requests successfully proxied              | counter |
| `vault.proxy.proxy.client_error` | Number of requests for which OpenBao returned an error | counter |
| `vault.proxy.proxy.error`        | Number of requests the proxy failed to proxy         | counter |
| `vault.proxy.cache.hit`          | Number of cache hits                                 | counter |
| `vault.proxy.cache.miss`         | Number of cache misses                               | counter |

## Start OpenBao proxy

To run OpenBao Proxy:

1. [Download](/downloads) the OpenBao binary where the client application runs
(virtual machine, Kubernetes pod, etc.)

1. Create an OpenBao Proxy configuration file. (See the [Example
Configuration](#example-configuration) section for an example configuration.)

1. Start an OpenBao Proxy with the configuration file.

**Example:**

```shell-session
$ bao proxy -config=/etc/openbao/proxy-config.hcl
   ```

To get help, run:

```shell-session
$ bao proxy -h
   ```

As with OpenBao, the `-config` flag can be used in three different ways:

- Use the flag once to name the path to a single specific configuration file.
- Use the flag multiple times to name multiple configuration files, which will be composed at runtime.
- Use the flag to name a directory of configuration files, the contents of which will be composed at runtime.

Alternatively, you can specify the configuration path using the `BAO_PROXY_CONFIG_PATH` environment variable. If the `-config` flag is provided, the environment variable is ignored.

**Example using environment variable:**

```shell-session
$ export BAO_PROXY_CONFIG_PATH=/etc/openbao/proxy-config.hcl
$ bao proxy
```

## Example configuration

An example configuration, with very contrived values, follows:

```hcl
pid_file = "./pidfile"

vault {
  address = "https://openbao-fqdn:8200"
  retry {
    num_retries = 5
  }
}

auto_auth {
  method "kubernetes" {
    config = {
      role = "foobar"
    }
  }

  sink "file" {
    config = {
      path = "/tmp/file-foo"
    }
  }

  sink "file" {
    wrap_ttl = "5m"
    aad_env_var = "TEST_AAD_ENV"
    dh_type = "curve25519"
    dh_path = "/tmp/file-foo-dhpath2"
    config = {
      path = "/tmp/file-bar"
    }
  }
}

cache {
  // An empty cache stanza still enables caching
}

api_proxy {
  use_auto_auth_token = true
}

listener "unix" {
  address = "/path/to/socket"
  tls_disable = true

  agent_api {
    enable_quit = true
  }
}

listener "tcp" {
  address = "127.0.0.1:8100"
  tls_disable = true
}
```

[vault]: #vault-stanza
[autoauth]: ../autoauth/index.mdx
[caching]: caching/index.mdx
[apiproxy]: apiproxy.mdx
[proxy-api]: #proxy_api-stanza
[listener]: #listener-stanza
[listener_main]: ../../configuration/listener/tcp.mdx
[telemetry]: ../../configuration/telemetry.mdx
