website/content/docs/internals/integrated-storage.mdx, before:

---
description: Learn about the integrated Raft storage in OpenBao.
---

# Integrated storage

OpenBao comes integrated with a native storage backend system. This storage backend
does not rely on any third party systems; it implements high availability and
provides backup/restore workflows.

## Consensus protocol

OpenBao's Integrated Storage uses a [consensus
protocol](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consensus_(computer_science)>) to provide
[Consistency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAP_theorem) (as defined by CAP).
The consensus protocol is based on ["Raft: In search of an Understandable
Consensus Algorithm"](https://raft.github.io/raft.pdf). For a visual explanation
of Raft, see [The Secret Lives of Data](http://thesecretlivesofdata.com/raft).

### Raft protocol overview

Raft is a consensus algorithm that is based on
[Paxos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paxos_%28computer_science%29). Compared
to Paxos, Raft is designed to have fewer states and a simpler, more
understandable algorithm.

The Raft protocol will not be fully covered here. However, a high level description is 
provided to help you build a mental model. Refer to the 
complete specification that's described in [this paper](https://raft.github.io/raft.pdf).

#### Terminology

There are a few key terms to know when discussing Raft:

- **Leader** - At any given time, the peer set elects a single node to be the leader.
The leader is responsible for ingesting new log entries, replicating to followers,
and managing when an entry is committed. The leader node is also the active OpenBao node and followers are standby nodes. Refer to the [High Availability](/docs/internals/high-availability#design-overview) document for more information.

- **Log** - An ordered sequence of entries (replicated log) to keep track of any cluster changes. The leader is responsible for _log replication_. When new data is written, for example, a new event creates a log entry. The leader then sends the new log entry to its followers. Any inconsistency within the replicated log entries will indicate an issue.

- **FSM** - [Finite State Machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finite-state_machine).
  A collection of finite states with transitions between them. As new logs
  are applied, the FSM is allowed to transition between states. Application of the
  same sequence of logs must result in the same state, meaning behavior must be deterministic.

- **Peer set** - The set of all members participating in log replication. All server nodes are in the peer set of the local cluster.

- **Quorum** - A majority of members from a peer set: for a set of size `n`,
  quorum requires at least `(n+1)/2` members. For example, if there are 5 members
  in the peer set, we would need 3 nodes to form a quorum. If a quorum of nodes is
  unavailable for any reason, the cluster becomes _unavailable_ and no new logs
  can be committed.

- **Committed Entry** - An entry is considered _committed_ when it is durably stored
  on a quorum of nodes. An entry is applied once its committed.

#### Node states

Raft nodes are always in one of three states: follower, candidate, or leader. All
nodes initially start out as a follower. In this state, nodes can accept log entries
from a leader and cast votes. If no entries are received for a period of time, nodes
will self-promote to the candidate state. In the candidate state, nodes request votes from their peers. If a candidate receives a quorum of votes, then it is promoted to a leader. The leader must accept new log entries and replicate to all the other followers.

#### Writing logs

Once a cluster has a leader, it is able to accept new log entries. A client can
request that a leader append a new log entry (from Raft's perspective, a log entry
is an opaque binary blob). The leader then writes the entry to durable storage and
attempts to replicate to a quorum of followers. Once the log entry is considered
_committed_, it can be _applied_ to a finite state machine. The finite state machine
is application specific; in OpenBao's case, we use
[BoltDB](https://github.com/etcd-io/bbolt) to maintain a cluster state. OpenBao's writes
are blocked until they are _committed_ and _applied_.

#### Compacting logs

It would be undesirable to allow a replicated log to grow in an unbounded
fashion. Raft provides a mechanism by which the current state is saved to 
snapshots and its related logs are compacted. Because of the FSM abstraction, 
restoring the state of the FSM must result in the same state as a replay of old 
logs. This allows Raft to capture the FSM state at a point in time and then remove 
all the logs that were used to reach that state. This is performed automatically 
without user intervention and prevents unbounded disk usage while also minimizing 
the time spent replaying logs. One of the advantages of using BoltDB is that it 
allows OpenBao's snapshots to be very light weight. Since OpenBao's data is already 
persisted to disk in BoltDB, the snapshot process just needs to truncate the raft logs.

#### Quorum

Consensus is fault-tolerant while a cluster has quorum.
If a quorum of nodes is unavailable, it is impossible to process log entries or reason
about peer membership. For example, suppose there are only 2 peers: A and B. The quorum
size is also 2, meaning both nodes must agree to commit a log entry. If either A or B
fails, it is now impossible to reach quorum. This means the cluster is unable to add
or remove a node or to commit any additional log entries. This results in
_unavailability_. At this point, manual intervention is required to remove
either A or B and restart the remaining node in bootstrap mode.

A Raft cluster of 3 nodes can tolerate a single node failure while a cluster of
5 can tolerate 2 node failures. The recommended OpenBao production deployment is
to run 5 OpenBao servers per cluster. See the [Minimum &
Scaling](#minimums-scaling) and [Deployment Table](#deployment-table) to learn
more about the failure tolerance using Integrated Storage.

#### Performance

In terms of performance, Raft is comparable to Paxos. Assuming stable leadership,
committing a log entry requires a single round trip to half of the cluster.
Thus, performance is bound by disk I/O and network latency.

### Raft in OpenBao

When getting started, a single OpenBao server is
[initialized](/docs/commands/operator/init/#operator-init). At this point, the
cluster is of size 1, which allows the node to self-elect as a leader. Once a
leader is elected, other servers can be added to the peer set in a way that
preserves consistency and safety.

The join process is how new nodes are added to the OpenBao cluster; it uses an
encrypted challenge/answer workflow. To accomplish this, all nodes in a single
Raft cluster must share the same seal configuration. If using an Auto Unseal, the
join process can use the configured seal to automatically decrypt the challenge
and respond with the answer. If using a Shamir seal, the unseal keys must be
provided to the node attempting to join the cluster before it can decrypt the
challenge and respond with the decrypted answer.

Since all servers participate as part of the peer set, they all know the current
leader. When an API request arrives at a non-leader server, the request is
forwarded to the leader.

Similar to other storage backends, data that is written to the Raft log and FSM
will be encrypted by OpenBao's barrier.

### Quorum management

#### Autopilot

An [Autopilot feature](/docs/concepts/integrated-storage/autopilot) 
is available since 1.7.x & later versions that include configurable parameters 
for when a node is treated as healthy before it's considered an eligible voter in the 
quorum list. Other features which may be enabled include the ability to remove nodes 
considered as dead from the quorum list after a certain period.

Autopilot is enabled by default and the default configuration values 
should work well for most OpenBao deployments, but they can be changed if needed.

Autopilot includes stabilization logic for nodes joining the cluster.
Recently joined nodes are 
accepted as non-voter initially until they are in sync with matching Raft index 
and only after a stability thresholds are they then full voting members.
Setting the stability threshold too low can result in cluster instability as nodes will be
counted as voters before they are capable of voting.

A dead server cleanup capability is available. With this feature 
enabled, unhealthy nodes are automatically removed from the Raft cluster without 
manual operator intervention. This is enabled via the [Autopilot API](/api-docs/system/storage/raftautopilot).
If you wish to decommission a node manually, this can be done with the 
`remove peer` [command](/docs/commands/operator/raft#remove-peer).

#### Without autopilot

In scenarios involving those when a node joins a Raft cluster, it attempts to 
catch up with the rest of the nodes through the data that it's replicating from 
the leader. While in this initial synchronisation state, the node cannot 
vote but is counted for the purposes of quorum. If a number of new nodes join 
the cluster simultaneously or at similar times, and thereby exceeding the failure
tolerance of the cluster, quorum may be lost and the cluster can fail.

For example, consider a scenario where there is a 3-node cluster with a large 
amount of data and a failure tolerance of 1. An additional 3 new nodes then 
join the cluster. The cluster now consists of 6 nodes with a failure tolerance 
of 2, but since all 3 nodes are still catching up, this will result in a loss of 
quorum.

* A 3 node cluster with a large amount of data that's at a failure tolerance of 1.
* Another 3 new nodes then join the cluster together.
* Now the cluster consists of 6 nodes with a failure tolerance of 2, but all 3 new nodes are still catching up, resulting in a loss of quorum.

For this reason, we recommend ensuring new nodes have Raft indexes that are
close to the leader before adding additional nodes. Raft indexes are visible via
`bao status`.

### Deployment table

Below is a table that shows quorum size and failure tolerance for various
cluster sizes. The recommended production deployment consists of 5 servers. A
single server deployment is _**highly**_ discouraged as data loss is inevitable
in a failure scenario.

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Servers</th>
      <th>Quorum Size</th>
      <th>Failure Tolerance</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="warning">
      <td>3</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>1</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>1</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="warning">
      <td>5</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>2</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>6</td>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>2</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>7</td>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>3</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Minimums & scaling

The OpenBao Reference Architecture recommends a 5 node cluster
to ensure a minimum failure tolerance of at least 2.

It is good practise, wherever possible, to retain a failure tolerance of 2 or 
more.

A scaling approach can be pursued in the event of maintenance and other changes 
where an additional pair of nodes (ie two) are added in an existing 5 node cluster 
making for a 7 node cluster. Once new joiners are confirmed to be in sync then 
the 2 older nodes can be stopped and or destroyed with the same processes being 
repeated until all other nodes have been replaced. This use of additional nodes 
on a temporary basis of a 7 node cluster arrangement, concluding back to 5 nodes, 
may be one way to ensure sufficient failure tolerance is maintained and that 
changes are made progressively in proportion to the cluster failure tolerance and 
never exceeding the available failure tolerance in any given time.

The intent with any change or scaling ought to be with the lose of quorum and 
reduction of the quorum failure tolerances at the forefront and discouraging 
any practises that compromise that.

Scaling clusters up or down in pairs with 2 nodes each time also has the added 
advantage of avoiding even numbers and it is always recommended to 
allow for an odd number of total voters in any cluster.

Commit message:

Update Docs (#938)
* Fix getting started guide

Updated step 4 Bash script to include echo statement to return "Secret written successfully" when the command terminates successfully.

Updated step 5 so the documentation only mentions a return of "Access granted" when looking at the Go code.

Signed-off-by: Katherine Mayo <katherine.y.mayo@gmail.com>

* Edited docs for spelling, grammar, and formatting errors
Edited code blocks for readability

Signed-off-by: Katherine Mayo <katherine.y.mayo@gmail.com>

* Fixed several doc files according  to last pull request review, and further fixed formatting on code blocks

Signed-off-by: Katherine Mayo <katherine.y.mayo@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Katherine Mayo <katherine.y.mayo@gmail.com>

website/content/docs/internals/integrated-storage.mdx, after:

---
description: Learn about the integrated Raft storage in OpenBao.
---

# Integrated Storage

OpenBao comes integrated with a native storage backend system. This storage backend
does not rely on any third party systems; it implements High Availability and
provides backup/restore workflows.

## Consensus protocol

OpenBao's Integrated Storage uses a [consensus
protocol](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consensus_(computer_science)>) to provide
[Consistency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAP_theorem) (as defined by CAP).
The consensus protocol is based on ["Raft: In search of an Understandable
Consensus Algorithm"](https://raft.github.io/raft.pdf). For a visual explanation
of Raft, see [The Secret Lives of Data](http://thesecretlivesofdata.com/raft).

### Raft protocol overview

Raft is a consensus algorithm that is based on
[Paxos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paxos_%28computer_science%29). Compared
to Paxos, Raft is designed to have fewer states and a simpler, more
understandable algorithm.

The Raft protocol will not be fully covered here. However, a high level description is 
provided to help you build a mental model. Refer to the 
complete specification that's described in [this paper](https://raft.github.io/raft.pdf).

#### Terminology

There are a few key terms to know when discussing Raft:

- **Leader** - At any given time, the peer set elects a single node to be the leader.
The leader is responsible for ingesting new log entries, replicating to followers,
and managing when an entry is committed. The leader node is also the active OpenBao node and followers are standby nodes. Refer to the [High Availability](/docs/internals/high-availability#design-overview) document for more information.

- **Log** - An ordered sequence of entries (replicated log) to keep track of any cluster changes. The leader is responsible for _log replication_. When new data is written, for example, a new event creates a log entry. The leader then sends the new log entry to its followers. Any inconsistency within the replicated log entries will indicate an issue.

- **FSM** - [Finite State Machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finite-state_machine).
  A collection of finite states with transitions between them. As new logs
  are applied, the FSM is allowed to transition between states. Application of the
  same sequence of logs must result in the same state, meaning behavior must be deterministic.

- **Peer set** - The set of all members participating in log replication. All server nodes are in the peer set of the local cluster.

- **Quorum** - A majority of members from a peer set: for a set of size `n`,
  quorum requires at least `(n+1)/2` members. For example, if there are 5 members
  in the peer set, we would need 3 nodes to form a quorum. If a quorum of nodes is
  unavailable for any reason, the cluster becomes _unavailable_ and no new logs
  can be committed.

- **Committed Entry** - An entry is considered _committed_ when it is durably stored
  on a quorum of nodes. An entry is applied once its committed.

#### Node states

Raft nodes are always in one of three states: follower, candidate, or leader. All
nodes initially start out as a follower. In this state, nodes can accept log entries
from a leader and cast votes. If no entries are received for a period of time, nodes
will self-promote to the candidate state. In the candidate state, nodes request votes from their peers. If a candidate receives a quorum of votes, then it is promoted to a leader. The leader must accept new log entries and replicate to all the other followers.

#### Writing logs

Once a cluster has a leader, it is able to accept new log entries. A client can
request that a leader append a new log entry (from Raft's perspective, a log entry
is an opaque binary blob). The leader then writes the entry to durable storage and
attempts to replicate to a quorum of followers. Once the log entry is considered
_committed_, it can be _applied_ to a finite state machine. The finite state machine
is application specific; in OpenBao's case, we use
[BoltDB](https://github.com/etcd-io/bbolt) to maintain a cluster state. OpenBao's writes
are blocked until they are _committed_ and _applied_.

#### Compacting logs

It would be undesirable to allow a replicated log to grow in an unbounded
fashion. Raft provides a mechanism by which the current state is saved to 
snapshots and its related logs are compacted. Because of the FSM abstraction, 
restoring the state of the FSM must result in the same state as a replay of old 
logs. This allows Raft to capture the FSM state at a point in time and then remove 
all the logs that were used to reach that state. This is performed automatically 
without user intervention and prevents unbounded disk usage while also minimizing 
the time spent replaying logs. One of the advantages of using BoltDB is that it 
allows OpenBao's snapshots to be very light weight. Since OpenBao's data is already 
persisted to disk in BoltDB, the snapshot process just needs to truncate the raft logs.

#### Quorum

Consensus is fault-tolerant while a cluster has quorum.
If a quorum of nodes is unavailable, it is impossible to process log entries or reason
about peer membership. For example, suppose there are only 2 peers: A and B. The quorum
size is also 2, meaning both nodes must agree to commit a log entry. If either A or B
fails, it is now impossible to reach quorum. This means the cluster is unable to add
or remove a node or to commit any additional log entries. This results in
_unavailability_. At this point, manual intervention is required to remove
either A or B and restart the remaining node in bootstrap mode.

A Raft cluster of 3 nodes can tolerate a single node failure while a cluster of
5 can tolerate 2 node failures. The recommended OpenBao production deployment is
to run 5 OpenBao servers per cluster. See the [Minimum &
Scaling](#minimums-scaling) and [Deployment Table](#deployment-table) to learn
more about the failure tolerance using Integrated Storage.

#### Performance

In terms of performance, Raft is comparable to Paxos. Assuming stable leadership,
committing a log entry requires a single round trip to half of the cluster.
Thus, performance is bound by disk I/O and network latency.

### Raft in OpenBao

When getting started, a single OpenBao server is
[initialized](/docs/commands/operator/init/#operator-init). At this point, the
cluster is of size 1, which allows the node to self-elect as a leader. Once a
leader is elected, other servers can be added to the peer set in a way that
preserves consistency and safety.

The join process is how new nodes are added to the OpenBao cluster; it uses an
encrypted challenge/answer workflow. To accomplish this, all nodes in a single
Raft cluster must share the same seal configuration. If using an Auto Unseal, the
join process can use the configured seal to automatically decrypt the challenge
and respond with the answer. If using a Shamir seal, the unseal keys must be
provided to the node attempting to join the cluster before it can decrypt the
challenge and respond with the decrypted answer.

Since all servers participate as part of the peer set, they all know the current
leader. When an API request arrives at a non-leader server, the request is
forwarded to the leader.

Similar to other storage backends, data that is written to the Raft log and FSM
will be encrypted by OpenBao's barrier.

### Quorum management

#### Autopilot

An [Autopilot feature](/docs/concepts/integrated-storage/autopilot) 
is available in HashiCorp Vault 1.7.x & later versions that includes configurable parameters 
for when a node is treated as healthy before it's considered an eligible voter in the 
quorum list. Other features which may be enabled include the ability to remove nodes 
considered as dead from the quorum list after a certain period.

Autopilot is enabled by default and the default configuration values 
should work well for most OpenBao deployments, but they can be changed if needed.

Autopilot includes stabilization logic for nodes joining the cluster.
Recently joined nodes are 
accepted as non-voters initially until they are in sync with matching Raft index 
and only after reaching a stability threshold are they then full voting members.
Setting the stability threshold too low can result in cluster instability as nodes will be
counted as voters before they are capable of voting.

A dead server cleanup capability is available. With this feature 
enabled, unhealthy nodes are automatically removed from the Raft cluster without 
manual operator intervention. This is enabled via the [Autopilot API](/api-docs/system/storage/raftautopilot).
If you wish to decommission a node manually, this can be done with the 
`remove peer` [command](/docs/commands/operator/raft#remove-peer).

#### Without autopilot

In scenarios involving those when a node joins a Raft cluster, it attempts to 
catch up with the rest of the nodes through the data that it's replicating from 
the leader. While in this initial synchronisation state, the node cannot 
vote but is counted for the purposes of quorum. If a number of new nodes join 
the cluster simultaneously or at similar times, and thereby exceeding the failure
tolerance of the cluster, quorum may be lost and the cluster can fail.

For example, consider a scenario where there is a 3-node cluster with a large 
amount of data and a failure tolerance of 1. An additional 3 new nodes then 
join the cluster. The cluster now consists of 6 nodes with a failure tolerance 
of 2, but since all 3 nodes are still catching up, this will result in a loss of 
quorum.

* A 3 node cluster with a large amount of data that's at a failure tolerance of 1.
* Another 3 new nodes then join the cluster together.
* Now the cluster consists of 6 nodes with a failure tolerance of 2, but all 3 new nodes are still catching up, resulting in a loss of quorum.

For this reason, we recommend ensuring new nodes have Raft indexes that are
close to the leader before adding additional nodes. Raft indexes are visible via
`bao status`.

### Deployment table

Below is a table that shows quorum size and failure tolerance for various
cluster sizes. The recommended production deployment consists of 5 servers. A
single server deployment is _**highly**_ discouraged as data loss is inevitable
in a failure scenario.

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Servers</th>
      <th>Quorum Size</th>
      <th>Failure Tolerance</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="warning">
      <td>3</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>1</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>1</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="warning">
      <td>5</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>2</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>6</td>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>2</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>7</td>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>3</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Minimums & scaling

The OpenBao Reference Architecture recommends a 5 node cluster
to ensure a minimum failure tolerance of at least 2.

It is good practise, wherever possible, to retain a failure tolerance of 2 or 
more.

A scaling approach can be pursued in the event of maintenance and other changes 
where an additional pair of nodes (ie two) are added in an existing 5 node cluster 
making for a 7 node cluster. Once new joiners are confirmed to be in sync then 
the 2 older nodes can be stopped and or destroyed with the same processes being 
repeated until all other nodes have been replaced. This use of additional nodes 
on a temporary basis of a 7 node cluster arrangement, concluding back to 5 nodes, 
may be one way to ensure sufficient failure tolerance is maintained and that 
changes are made progressively in proportion to the cluster failure tolerance and 
never exceeding the available failure tolerance in any given time.

The intent with any change or scaling ought to be with the loss of quorum and 
reduction of the quorum failure tolerances at the forefront and discouraging 
any practises that compromise that.

Scaling clusters up or down in pairs with 2 nodes each time also has the added 
advantage of avoiding even numbers and it is always recommended to 
allow for an odd number of total voters in any cluster.
