website/content/docs/internals/limits.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Limits and maximums
description: Learn about the maximum number of objects within OpenBao.
---

# OpenBao limits and maximums

OpenBao imposes fixed upper limits on the size of certain fields and
objects, and configurable limits on others. OpenBao also has upper
bounds that are a consequence of its underlying storage. This page
attempts to collect these limits, to assist in planning OpenBao
deployments.

In some cases, the system will show performance problems in advance of
the absolute limits being reached.

## Storage-Related limits

### Storage entry size

The maximum size of an object written to a storage backend is determined
by that backend.

For the Integrated Storage backend, the default limit is 1 MiB. This may be
configured via `max_entry_size` in the [storage
stanza](/docs/configuration/storage/raft#max_entry_size).

Many of the other limits within OpenBao derive from the maximum size of
a storage entry, as described in the next sections. It is possible to
recover from an error where a storage entry has reached its maximum
size by reconfiguring OpenBao to a larger maximum storage
entry. However, using large storage entries also negatively affects
performance, as even a small change may become a large
read-modify-write cycle on the entire entry. Larger writes may also delay
Raft heartbeats, leading to leadership instability.

### Mount point limits

All secret engine mount points, and all auth mount points, must each fit
within a single storage entry. Each JSON object describing a mount
takes about 500 bytes, but is stored in compressed form at a typical cost of
about 75 bytes. Each of (1) auth mounts, (2) secret engine mount points,
(3) local-only auth methods, and (4) local-only secret engine mounts are
stored separately, so the limit applies to each independently.

|                                              | Integrated Storage default (1 MiB) |
| -------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| Maximum number of secret engine mount points | ~14000                             |
| Maximum number of enabled auth methods       | ~14000                             |
| Maximum mount point length                   | no enforced limit                  |

Specifying distinct per-mount options, or using long mount point paths, can
increase the space required per mount.

The number of mount points can be monitored by reading the
[`sys/auth`](/api-docs/system/auth) and
[`sys/mounts`](/api-docs/system/mounts) endpoints from the root namespace and
similar sub-paths for namespaces respectively, like: `namespace1/sys/auth`,
`namespace1/sys/mounts`, etc.

Alternatively, use the
[`vault.core.mount_table.num_entries`](/docs/internals/telemetry/metrics/core-system#vault-core-mount_table-num_entries)
and
[`vault.core.mount_table.size`](/docs/internals/telemetry/metrics/core-system#vault-core-mount_table-size)
telemetry metrics to monitor the number of mount points and size of each mount table.

### Namespace limits

The entire list of namespaces must fit in a single storage
entry. However, the effective limit is generally much smaller because each
namespace must have at least two secret engine mounts (for `sys` and `identity`),
one local secret engine (`cubbyhole`) and one auth engine mount (`token`).

|                                                                              | Integrated storage default (1 MiB) |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| Maximum number of namespaces                                                 | ~7000                              |
| Maximum number of namespaces with one additional secret engine per namespace | ~4600                              |
| Maximum nesting depth for namespaces                                         | ~220                               |

The maximum nesting depth calculation assumes a cost of 40 bytes per namespace
path element. 160 nested paths = 160 namespaces ranging from 40 bytes to
6400 bytes.

The number of namespaces can be monitored by querying
[`sys/namespaces`](/api-docs/system/namespaces).

To estimate the number of namespaces that can be created, divide the mount
point limit by the larger of the number of auth mounts per namespace
(including `ns_token`) and the number of secret mounts per namespace
(including `identity` and `sys`.)

### Entity and group limits

The metadata that may be attached to an identity entity or an entity group
has the following constraints:

|                                       | Limit     |
| ------------------------------------- | --------- |
| Number of key-value pairs in metadata | 64        |
| Metadata key size                     | 128 bytes |
| Metadata value size                   | 512 bytes |

OpenBao shards the entities across 256 storage entries. This creates a hard
limit of  256MiB on Integrated Storage with its default settings. Entity aliases
are stored inline in the Entity objects and so consume the same pool of storage.
Entity definitions are compressed within each storage entry, and the
pre-compression size varies with the number of entity aliases and the amount of
metadata. Minimally-populated entities are about 200 bytes after compression.

Group definitions are stored separately, in their own pool of 256
storage entries. The size of each group object depends on the number
of members and the amount of metadata. Group aliases and group
membership information is stored inline in each Group object. A group
with no metadata, holding 10 entities, will use about 500 bytes per
group. A group holding 100 entities would instead consume about 4,000
bytes.

The following table shows a best-case estimate and a more conservative
estimate for entities and groups. The number is slightly less than the
amount that fits in one shard, to reflect the fact that the first
shard to fill up will start inducing failures. This maximum will
decrease if each entity has a large amount of metadata, or if each
group has a large number of members.

|                                                                                          | Integrated storage default (1 MiB) |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| Maximum number of identity entities (best case, 200 bytes per entity)                    | ~1,250,000                         |
| Maximum number of identity entities (conservative case, 500 bytes per entity)            | ~480,000                           |
| Maximum number of identity entities (maximum permitted metadata, 41160 bytes per entity) | 2,400                              |
| Maximum number of groups (10 entities per group)                                         | ~480,000                           |
| Maximum number of groups (100 entities per group)                                        | ~50,000                            |
| Maximum number of members in a group                                                     | ~23,000                            |

The number of entities can be monitored using OpenBao's [telemetry](/docs/internals/telemetry#token-identity-and-lease-metrics); see `vault.identity.num_entities` (total) or `vault.identity.entities.count` (by namespace).

The cost of entity and group updates grows as the number of objects in
each shard increases. This cost can be monitored via the
`vault.identity.upsert_entity_txn` and
the `vault.identity.upsert_group_txn` metrics.

Very large internal groups should be avoided (more than 1000 members),
because the membership list in a group must reside in a single storage entry.
Instead, consider using [external groups](/docs/concepts/identity#external-vs-internal-groups) or split the group up into multiple sub-groups.

### Token limits

One storage entry is used per token; there is thus no
upper bound on the number of active tokens. There are no restrictions on
the token metadata field, other than the entire token must fit into one
storage entry:

|                                       | Limit    |
| ------------------------------------- | -------- |
| Number of key-value pairs in metadata | no limit |
| Metadata key size                     | no limit |
| Metadata value size                   | no limit |
| Total size of token metadata          | 512 KiB  |

### Policy limits

The maximum size of a policy is limited by the storage
entry size. Policy lists that appear in tokens or entities must fit
within a single storage entry.

|                                                | Integrated Storage default (1 MiB) |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| Maximum policy size                            | 1 MiB                              |
| Maximum number of policies per namespace       | no limit                           |
| Maximum number of policies per token           | ~28,000                            |
| Maximum number of policies per entity or group | ~28,000                            |

Each time a token is used, OpenBao must assemble the collection of
policies attached to that token, to the entity, to any groups that the
entity belongs to, and recursively to any groups that contain those groups.
Very large numbers of policies are possible, but can cause OpenBao’s
response time to increase. You can monitor the
[`vault.core.fetch_acl_and_token`](/docs/internals/telemetry#core-metrics)
metric to determine if the time required to assemble an access control list
is becoming excessive.

### Versioned key-value store (kv-v2 secret engine)

|                                                          | Limit                                                      |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Number of secrets                                        | no limit, up to available storage capacity                 |
| Maximum size of one version of a secret                  | slightly less than one storage entry (512 KiB or 1024 KiB) |
| Number of versions of a secret                           | default 10; configurable per-secret or per-mount           |
| Maximum number of versions (not checked when configured) | at least 24,000                                            |

Each version of a secret must fit in a single storage entry; the
key-value pairs are converted to JSON before storage.

Version metadata consumes 21 bytes per version and must fit in a
single storage entry, separate from the stored data.

Each secret also has version-agnostic metadata. This data can contain a `custom_metadata` field of
user-provided key-value pairs. OpenBao imposes the following custom metadata limits:

|                                           | Limit     |
| ----------------------------------------- | --------- |
| Number of custom metadata key-value pairs | 64        |
| Custom metadata key size                  | 128 bytes |
| Custom metadata value size                | 512 bytes |

### Transit secret engine

The maximum size of a Transit ciphertext or plaintext is limited by OpenBao's
maximum request size, as described [below](#request-size).

All archived versions of a single key must fit in a single storage entry.
This limit depends on the key size.

| Key length           | Integrated Storage default (1 MiB) |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| aes128-gcm96 keys    | 4017                               |
| aes256-gcm96 keys    | 3731                               |
| chacha-poly1305 keys | 3731                               |
| ed25519 keys         | 2841                               |
| ecdsa-p256 keys      | 1635                               |
| ecdsa-p384 keys      | 1318                               |
| ecdsa-p523 keys      | 1078                               |
| 1024-bit RSA keys    | 333                                |
| 2048-bit RSA keys    | 233                                |
| 4096-bit RSA kyes    | 178                                |

## Other limits

### Request size

The maximum size of an HTTP request sent to OpenBao is limited by
the `max_request_size` option in the [listener stanza](/docs/configuration/listener/tcp). It defaults to 32 MiB. This value, minus the overhead of
the HTTP request itself, places an upper bound on any Transit operation,
and on the maximum size of any key-value secrets.

### Request duration

The maximum duration of an OpenBao operation is
[`max_request_duration`](/docs/configuration/listener/tcp), which defaults to
90 seconds. If a particular secret engine takes longer than this to perform an
operation on a remote service, the OpenBao client will see a failure.

The environment variable [`VAULT_CLIENT_TIMEOUT`](/docs/commands#vault_client_timeout) sets a client-side maximum duration as well,
which is 60 seconds by default.

### Lease limits

A systemwide [maximum TTL](/docs/configuration#max_lease_ttl), and a
[maximum TTL per mount point](/api-docs/system/mounts#max_lease_ttl-1) can be
configured.

Although no technical maximum exists, high lease counts can cause
degradation in system performance. We recommend short default
time-to-live values on tokens and leases to avoid a large backlog of
unexpired leases, or a large number of simultaneous expirations.

|                                    | Limit                     |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------- |
| Maximum number of leases           | advisory limit at 256,000 |
| Maximum duration of lease or token | 768 hours by default      |

The current number of unexpired leases can be monitored via the
[`vault.expire.num_leases`](/docs/internals/telemetry#token-identity-and-lease-metrics) metric.

### External plugin limits

The [plugin system](/docs/plugins) launches a separate process
initiated by OpenBao that communicates over RPC. For each secret engine and auth
method that's enabled as an external plugin, OpenBao will spawn a process on the
host system. For the Database Secrets Engines, external database plugins will
spawn a process for every configured connection.

Regardless of plugin type, each of these processes will incur resource overhead
on the system, including but not limited to resources such as CPU, memory,
networking, and file descriptors. There's no specific limit on the number
secrets engines, auth methods, or database configured connections that can be
enabled. This ultimately depends on the particular plugin resource utilization,
the extent to which that plugin is being called, and the available resources on
the system. For plugins of the same type, each additional process will incur a
roughly linear increase in resource utilization. This assumes the usage of each
plugin of the same type is similar.

Commit message:

reject JSON bodies which consume large amounts of RAM (#1756) (#1799)
* reject JSON bodies which consume large amounts of RAM



* Update website/content/docs/internals/limits.mdx




* Apply suggestions from code review




---------

Signed-off-by: Philipp Stehle <philipp.stehle@secretz.io>
Signed-off-by: Philipp Stehle <anderschwiedu@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Philipp Stehle <philipp.stehle@secretz.io>

website/content/docs/internals/limits.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Limits and maximums
description: Learn about the maximum number of objects within OpenBao.
---

# OpenBao limits and maximums

OpenBao imposes fixed upper limits on the size of certain fields and
objects, and configurable limits on others. OpenBao also has upper
bounds that are a consequence of its underlying storage. This page
attempts to collect these limits, to assist in planning OpenBao
deployments.

In some cases, the system will show performance problems in advance of
the absolute limits being reached.

## Storage-Related limits

### Storage entry size

The maximum size of an object written to a storage backend is determined
by that backend.

For the Integrated Storage backend, the default limit is 1 MiB. This may be
configured via `max_entry_size` in the [storage
stanza](/docs/configuration/storage/raft#max_entry_size).

Many of the other limits within OpenBao derive from the maximum size of
a storage entry, as described in the next sections. It is possible to
recover from an error where a storage entry has reached its maximum
size by reconfiguring OpenBao to a larger maximum storage
entry. However, using large storage entries also negatively affects
performance, as even a small change may become a large
read-modify-write cycle on the entire entry. Larger writes may also delay
Raft heartbeats, leading to leadership instability.

### Mount point limits

All secret engine mount points, and all auth mount points, must each fit
within a single storage entry. Each JSON object describing a mount
takes about 500 bytes, but is stored in compressed form at a typical cost of
about 75 bytes. Each of (1) auth mounts, (2) secret engine mount points,
(3) local-only auth methods, and (4) local-only secret engine mounts are
stored separately, so the limit applies to each independently.

|                                              | Integrated Storage default (1 MiB) |
| -------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| Maximum number of secret engine mount points | ~14000                             |
| Maximum number of enabled auth methods       | ~14000                             |
| Maximum mount point length                   | no enforced limit                  |

Specifying distinct per-mount options, or using long mount point paths, can
increase the space required per mount.

The number of mount points can be monitored by reading the
[`sys/auth`](/api-docs/system/auth) and
[`sys/mounts`](/api-docs/system/mounts) endpoints from the root namespace and
similar sub-paths for namespaces respectively, like: `namespace1/sys/auth`,
`namespace1/sys/mounts`, etc.

Alternatively, use the
[`vault.core.mount_table.num_entries`](/docs/internals/telemetry/metrics/core-system#vault-core-mount_table-num_entries)
and
[`vault.core.mount_table.size`](/docs/internals/telemetry/metrics/core-system#vault-core-mount_table-size)
telemetry metrics to monitor the number of mount points and size of each mount table.

### Namespace limits

The entire list of namespaces must fit in a single storage
entry. However, the effective limit is generally much smaller because each
namespace must have at least two secret engine mounts (for `sys` and `identity`),
one local secret engine (`cubbyhole`) and one auth engine mount (`token`).

|                                                                              | Integrated storage default (1 MiB) |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| Maximum number of namespaces                                                 | ~7000                              |
| Maximum number of namespaces with one additional secret engine per namespace | ~4600                              |
| Maximum nesting depth for namespaces                                         | ~220                               |

The maximum nesting depth calculation assumes a cost of 40 bytes per namespace
path element. 160 nested paths = 160 namespaces ranging from 40 bytes to
6400 bytes.

The number of namespaces can be monitored by querying
[`sys/namespaces`](/api-docs/system/namespaces).

To estimate the number of namespaces that can be created, divide the mount
point limit by the larger of the number of auth mounts per namespace
(including `ns_token`) and the number of secret mounts per namespace
(including `identity` and `sys`.)

### Entity and group limits

The metadata that may be attached to an identity entity or an entity group
has the following constraints:

|                                       | Limit     |
| ------------------------------------- | --------- |
| Number of key-value pairs in metadata | 64        |
| Metadata key size                     | 128 bytes |
| Metadata value size                   | 512 bytes |

OpenBao shards the entities across 256 storage entries. This creates a hard
limit of  256MiB on Integrated Storage with its default settings. Entity aliases
are stored inline in the Entity objects and so consume the same pool of storage.
Entity definitions are compressed within each storage entry, and the
pre-compression size varies with the number of entity aliases and the amount of
metadata. Minimally-populated entities are about 200 bytes after compression.

Group definitions are stored separately, in their own pool of 256
storage entries. The size of each group object depends on the number
of members and the amount of metadata. Group aliases and group
membership information is stored inline in each Group object. A group
with no metadata, holding 10 entities, will use about 500 bytes per
group. A group holding 100 entities would instead consume about 4,000
bytes.

The following table shows a best-case estimate and a more conservative
estimate for entities and groups. The number is slightly less than the
amount that fits in one shard, to reflect the fact that the first
shard to fill up will start inducing failures. This maximum will
decrease if each entity has a large amount of metadata, or if each
group has a large number of members.

|                                                                                          | Integrated storage default (1 MiB) |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| Maximum number of identity entities (best case, 200 bytes per entity)                    | ~1,250,000                         |
| Maximum number of identity entities (conservative case, 500 bytes per entity)            | ~480,000                           |
| Maximum number of identity entities (maximum permitted metadata, 41160 bytes per entity) | 2,400                              |
| Maximum number of groups (10 entities per group)                                         | ~480,000                           |
| Maximum number of groups (100 entities per group)                                        | ~50,000                            |
| Maximum number of members in a group                                                     | ~23,000                            |

The number of entities can be monitored using OpenBao's [telemetry](/docs/internals/telemetry#token-identity-and-lease-metrics); see `vault.identity.num_entities` (total) or `vault.identity.entities.count` (by namespace).

The cost of entity and group updates grows as the number of objects in
each shard increases. This cost can be monitored via the
`vault.identity.upsert_entity_txn` and
the `vault.identity.upsert_group_txn` metrics.

Very large internal groups should be avoided (more than 1000 members),
because the membership list in a group must reside in a single storage entry.
Instead, consider using [external groups](/docs/concepts/identity#external-vs-internal-groups) or split the group up into multiple sub-groups.

### Token limits

One storage entry is used per token; there is thus no
upper bound on the number of active tokens. There are no restrictions on
the token metadata field, other than the entire token must fit into one
storage entry:

|                                       | Limit    |
| ------------------------------------- | -------- |
| Number of key-value pairs in metadata | no limit |
| Metadata key size                     | no limit |
| Metadata value size                   | no limit |
| Total size of token metadata          | 512 KiB  |

### Policy limits

The maximum size of a policy is limited by the storage
entry size. Policy lists that appear in tokens or entities must fit
within a single storage entry.

|                                                | Integrated Storage default (1 MiB) |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| Maximum policy size                            | 1 MiB                              |
| Maximum number of policies per namespace       | no limit                           |
| Maximum number of policies per token           | ~28,000                            |
| Maximum number of policies per entity or group | ~28,000                            |

Each time a token is used, OpenBao must assemble the collection of
policies attached to that token, to the entity, to any groups that the
entity belongs to, and recursively to any groups that contain those groups.
Very large numbers of policies are possible, but can cause OpenBao’s
response time to increase. You can monitor the
[`vault.core.fetch_acl_and_token`](/docs/internals/telemetry#core-metrics)
metric to determine if the time required to assemble an access control list
is becoming excessive.

### Versioned key-value store (kv-v2 secret engine)

|                                                          | Limit                                                      |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Number of secrets                                        | no limit, up to available storage capacity                 |
| Maximum size of one version of a secret                  | slightly less than one storage entry (512 KiB or 1024 KiB) |
| Number of versions of a secret                           | default 10; configurable per-secret or per-mount           |
| Maximum number of versions (not checked when configured) | at least 24,000                                            |

Each version of a secret must fit in a single storage entry; the
key-value pairs are converted to JSON before storage.

Version metadata consumes 21 bytes per version and must fit in a
single storage entry, separate from the stored data.

Each secret also has version-agnostic metadata. This data can contain a `custom_metadata` field of
user-provided key-value pairs. OpenBao imposes the following custom metadata limits:

|                                           | Limit     |
| ----------------------------------------- | --------- |
| Number of custom metadata key-value pairs | 64        |
| Custom metadata key size                  | 128 bytes |
| Custom metadata value size                | 512 bytes |

### Transit secret engine

The maximum size of a Transit ciphertext or plaintext is limited by OpenBao's
maximum request size, as described [below](#request-size).

All archived versions of a single key must fit in a single storage entry.
This limit depends on the key size.

| Key length           | Integrated Storage default (1 MiB) |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| aes128-gcm96 keys    | 4017                               |
| aes256-gcm96 keys    | 3731                               |
| chacha-poly1305 keys | 3731                               |
| ed25519 keys         | 2841                               |
| ecdsa-p256 keys      | 1635                               |
| ecdsa-p384 keys      | 1318                               |
| ecdsa-p523 keys      | 1078                               |
| 1024-bit RSA keys    | 333                                |
| 2048-bit RSA keys    | 233                                |
| 4096-bit RSA kyes    | 178                                |

## Other limits

### Request size

The maximum size of an HTTP request sent to OpenBao is limited by
the `max_request_size` option in the [listener stanza](/docs/configuration/listener/tcp). It defaults to 32 MiB. This value, minus the overhead of
the HTTP request itself, places an upper bound on any Transit operation,
and on the maximum size of any key-value secrets.

### Request duration

The maximum duration of an OpenBao operation is
[`max_request_duration`](/docs/configuration/listener/tcp), which defaults to
90 seconds. If a particular secret engine takes longer than this to perform an
operation on a remote service, the OpenBao client will see a failure.

The environment variable [`VAULT_CLIENT_TIMEOUT`](/docs/commands#vault_client_timeout) sets a client-side maximum duration as well,
which is 60 seconds by default.

### Request JSON Complexity

The maximum number of tokens in a request body JSON is limited by the
`max_request_json_complexity` option in the [listener
stanza](/docs/configuration/listener/tcp). It defaults to 10000. This limit is
in place to prevent attackers from sending specially crafted JSON bodies that,
once unmarshaled, consume significantly more memory than the original request body (circumventing the
`max_request_size` limit). This limit should not affect valid requests, as even
large requests use a small number of tokens (a large string still counts as a
single token).

The definition for "JSON complexity" might change in the future.

### Lease limits

A systemwide [maximum TTL](/docs/configuration#max_lease_ttl), and a
[maximum TTL per mount point](/api-docs/system/mounts#max_lease_ttl-1) can be
configured.

Although no technical maximum exists, high lease counts can cause
degradation in system performance. We recommend short default
time-to-live values on tokens and leases to avoid a large backlog of
unexpired leases, or a large number of simultaneous expirations.

|                                    | Limit                     |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------- |
| Maximum number of leases           | advisory limit at 256,000 |
| Maximum duration of lease or token | 768 hours by default      |

The current number of unexpired leases can be monitored via the
[`vault.expire.num_leases`](/docs/internals/telemetry#token-identity-and-lease-metrics) metric.

### External plugin limits

The [plugin system](/docs/plugins) launches a separate process
initiated by OpenBao that communicates over RPC. For each secret engine and auth
method that's enabled as an external plugin, OpenBao will spawn a process on the
host system. For the Database Secrets Engines, external database plugins will
spawn a process for every configured connection.

Regardless of plugin type, each of these processes will incur resource overhead
on the system, including but not limited to resources such as CPU, memory,
networking, and file descriptors. There's no specific limit on the number
secrets engines, auth methods, or database configured connections that can be
enabled. This ultimately depends on the particular plugin resource utilization,
the extent to which that plugin is being called, and the available resources on
the system. For plugins of the same type, each additional process will incur a
roughly linear increase in resource utilization. This assumes the usage of each
plugin of the same type is similar.
