website/content/api-docs/system/rotate/backup.mdx, before:

---
description: The `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/backup` endpoints are used to read or delete backed-up rotation keys.
---

# `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/backup`

This endpoint returns the backup copy of PGP-encrypted unseal keys. The returned
value is the nonce of the rotation and a map of PGP key fingerprint to hex-encoded
PGP-encrypted key.

| Method | Path                                   |
| :----- | :------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/rotate/(root\|recovery)/backup`  |

### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/backup
```
or
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/backup
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "request_id": "9311c844-6be7-3c00-d2bc-e97fa8345338",
  "lease_id": "",
  "renewable": false,
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "data": {
    "nonce": "2dbd10f1-8528-6246-09e7-82b25b8aba63",
    "keys": {
      "abcd1234": "..."
    }
  },
  "wrap_info": null,
  "warnings": null,
  "auth": null
}
```

## Delete backup key

This endpoint deletes the backup copy of PGP-encrypted unseal keys.

| Method   | Path                                  |
| :------- | :------------------------------------ |
| `DELETE` | `/sys/rotate/(root\|recovery)/backup` |


### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/backup
```
or 
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/backup
```

Commit message:

refactor: added info panel to newly introduced endpoints in v2.4.0
Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

website/content/api-docs/system/rotate/backup.mdx, after:

---
description: The `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/backup` endpoints are used to read or delete backed-up rotation keys.
---

# `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/backup`

:::info

The `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/backup` endpoints are available from version `v2.4.0`.

:::

This endpoint returns the backup copy of PGP-encrypted unseal keys. The returned
value is the nonce of the rotation and a map of PGP key fingerprint to hex-encoded
PGP-encrypted key.

| Method | Path                                   |
| :----- | :------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/rotate/(root\|recovery)/backup`  |

### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/backup
```
or
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/backup
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "request_id": "9311c844-6be7-3c00-d2bc-e97fa8345338",
  "lease_id": "",
  "renewable": false,
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "data": {
    "nonce": "2dbd10f1-8528-6246-09e7-82b25b8aba63",
    "keys": {
      "abcd1234": "..."
    }
  },
  "wrap_info": null,
  "warnings": null,
  "auth": null
}
```

## Delete backup key

This endpoint deletes the backup copy of PGP-encrypted unseal keys.

| Method   | Path                                  |
| :------- | :------------------------------------ |
| `DELETE` | `/sys/rotate/(root\|recovery)/backup` |


### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/backup
```
or 
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/backup
```
