website/content/api-docs/system/rotate/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
description: >- 
  The `/sys/rotate` endpoints are used to rotate unseal, root, backend encryption keys.
---

# `/sys/rotate`

### Encryption key rotation

The `/sys/rotate/keyring` endpoint is used to rotate the encryption key. It is
also possible to configure automatic encryption key rotation using
`/sys/rotate/keyring/config` endpoint.

### Rotate unseal/recovery keys

The `/sys/rotate/root` endpoints are used to rotate the root key for OpenBao,
and the unseal key shares when using Shamir's manual unseal mechanism.

On seals that support stored keys (e.g. HSM PKCS#11), the recovery key share(s)
can be provided to rotate the root key since no unseal keys are available. The
secret shares, secret threshold, and stored shares parameters must be set to 1.
Upon successful rotation, no split unseal key shares are returned.

The `/sys/rotate/recovery` endpoints are used to rotate the recovery keys for
OpenBao. These endpoints only apply to seals that support recovery keys.

Depending on the variable in the request path (`root` or `recovery`) 
operation is performed for the root or recovery keys.

### Progress rotation

`/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/update` endpoint is used to enter a single
key share to progress the rotation of the OpenBao. If the threshold number
of key shares is reached, OpenBao will complete the rotation.

### Rotation verification

`/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/verify` endpoint reads the configuration and
progress of the current rotation verification attempt.

### Backup rotated keys

`/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/backup` endpoint returns the backup copy of
PGP-encrypted unseal keys. The returned value is the nonce of the rotate
operation and a map of PGP key fingerprint to hex-encoded PGP-encrypted key.

## Supported rotation endpoints

- [Rotate encryption key](keyring.mdx)
- [Configure automatic encryption key rotation config](keyring-config.mdx)
- [Rotate root key without providing existing key shares](root.mdx)
- [Read, initialize or cancel rotation](init.mdx)
- [Progress rotation](update.mdx)
- [Read, progress or cancel rotation verification operation](verify.mdx)
- [Read or delete backed-up rotation keys](backup.mdx)

Commit message:

Document key rotation process
This addresses gaps in documentation of how the root/recovery key
rotation process is supposed to occur.

See also: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/208680#note_2864483901

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

website/content/api-docs/system/rotate/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
description: >- 
  The `/sys/rotate` endpoints are used to rotate unseal, root, backend encryption keys.
---

# `/sys/rotate`

### Encryption key rotation

The `/sys/rotate/keyring` endpoint is used to rotate the encryption key. It is
also possible to configure automatic encryption key rotation using
`/sys/rotate/keyring/config` endpoint.

### Rotate unseal/recovery keys

The `/sys/rotate/root` endpoints are used to rotate the root key for OpenBao,
and the unseal key shares when using Shamir's manual unseal mechanism.

On seals that support stored keys (e.g. HSM PKCS#11), the recovery key share(s)
can be provided to rotate the root key since no unseal keys are available. The
secret shares, secret threshold, and stored shares parameters must be set to 1.
Upon successful rotation, no split unseal key shares are returned.

The `/sys/rotate/recovery` endpoints are used to rotate the recovery keys for
OpenBao. These endpoints only apply to seals that support recovery keys.

Depending on the variable in the request path (`root` or `recovery`) 
operation is performed for the root or recovery keys.

#### Rotation Process

Rotation normally is a two- or three-step process:

1. The [`.../init`](init.mdx) endpoint is called with rotation parameters,
   yielding a nonce to be used on all subsequent operations.
2. The [`.../update`](update.mdx) endpoint is called by a sufficient quorum,
   providing an existing share to prove the validity of the operation.
   - When the last necessary share has been provided, the new key shares will
     be returned on the `update` call. These should be distributed to relevant
     parties. When `require_verification=false` (default), the rotation is
     finalized and the state reset.
3. Optionally when `require_verification=true` is set, each _new_ share must
   be provided to this endpoint separately. When the last necessary share has
   been provided, the rotation is finalized and the state reset.

The rotation may also be [cancelled](init.mdx#cancel-rotation) before it is
finished. Attempting to start a new rotation while an existing rotation is
happening will cause an error.

When PGP keys are provided as encryption targets for key shares, the
[`.../backup`](backup.mdx) endpoint can be called after rotation has been
completed to preserve the current (encrypted) key shares.

As a special case, when using [declarative self-initialization with an
auto-unseal mechanism](/docs/configuration/self-init/), no recovery
shares are provisioned by default. In this case, `sys/rotate/recovery/init`
will immediately yield new key shares aligning with the specified
configuration, as no existing key shares exist.

### Progress rotation

`/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/update` endpoint is used to enter a single
key share to progress the rotation of the OpenBao. If the threshold number
of key shares is reached, OpenBao will complete the rotation.

### Rotation verification

`/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/verify` endpoint reads the configuration and
progress of the current rotation verification attempt.

### Backup rotated keys

`/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/backup` endpoint returns the backup copy of
PGP-encrypted unseal keys. The returned value is the nonce of the rotate
operation and a map of PGP key fingerprint to hex-encoded PGP-encrypted key.

## Supported rotation endpoints

- [Rotate encryption key](keyring.mdx)
- [Configure automatic encryption key rotation config](keyring-config.mdx)
- [Rotate root key without providing existing key shares](root.mdx)
- [Read, initialize or cancel rotation](init.mdx)
- [Progress rotation](update.mdx)
- [Read, progress or cancel rotation verification operation](verify.mdx)
- [Read or delete backed-up rotation keys](backup.mdx)
