website/content/api-docs/system/rotate/init.mdx, before:

---
description: The `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/init` endpoints are used to initialize, cancel or retrieve status of the unseal keys rotation for OpenBao.
---

# `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/init`

On seals that support stored keys (e.g. HSM PKCS#11), the recovery key share(s)
can be provided to rotate the root key since no unseal keys are available. The
secret shares, secret threshold, and stored shares parameters must be set to 1.
Upon successful rotation, no split unseal key shares are returned.

## Read rotation progress

This endpoint reads the configuration and progress of the current rotation attempt.

| Method | Path                               |
| :----- | :--------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/rotate/(root\|recovery)/init`|


### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/init
```
or
```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/init
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "request_id": "9311c844-6be7-3c00-d2bc-e97fa8345338",
  "lease_id": "",
  "renewable": false,
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "data": {
    "started": true,
    "nonce": "2dbd10f1-8528-6246-09e7-82b25b8aba63",
    "t": 3,
    "n": 5,
    "progress": 1,
    "required": 3,
    "pgp_fingerprints": ["abcd1234"],
    "backup": true,
    "verification_required": false
  },
  "wrap_info": null,
  "warnings": null,
  "auth": null
}
```

If a rotation is started, then `n` is the number of new shares to generate and
`t` is the threshold required for the unseal. `progress` is how many unseal keys
have been provided for this rotation, where `required` must be reached to complete.
The `nonce` for the current rotation is also displayed. 
If PGP keys are being used to encrypt the final shares, the key fingerprints and
property dictating whether the final keys will be backed up to physical storage
are also be displayed.
`verification_required` indicates whether verification was enabled for this
operation.


## Start rotation

This endpoint initializes a new rotation attempt. Only a single rotation attempt
can take place at a time. To change the parameters of a rotation, the current
rotation has to be cancelled, and a new one has to be initialized, which also
provides a new nonce.

If the server was initialized with no recovery keys, `/sys/rotate/root/init`
endpoint will not work as no recovery keys are present. To rotate the root
key, use the `/sys/rotate/root` [endpoint](/api-docs/system/rotate/root) instead.
When rotating recovery keys, `/sys/rotate/recovery/init` will immediate return
the specified number of recovery key shares.

| Method | Path                                |
| :----- | :---------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/rotate/(root\|recovery)/init` |

### Parameters

- `secret_shares` `(int: <required>)` - Specifies the number of shares to split
  the root key into.

- `secret_threshold` `(int: <required>)` - Specifies the number of shares
  required to reconstruct the root key. This must be less than or equal to
  `secret_shares`.

- `pgp_keys` `(array<string>: nil)` - Specifies an array of PGP public keys used
  to encrypt the output unseal keys. Ordering is preserved. The keys must be
  base64-encoded from their original binary representation. The size of this
  array must be the same as `secret_shares`.

- `backup` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if using PGP-encrypted keys, whether
  OpenBao should also store a plaintext backup of the PGP-encrypted keys at
  `core/unseal-keys-backup` (or `core/recovery-keys-backup`) in the physical
  storage backend. These can then be retrieved and removed via the
  `sys/rotate/root/backup` (or `sys/rotate/recovery/backup`) endpoints.

- `require_verification` `(bool: false)` - Specifies usage of verification
  functionality. When verification is turned on, after successful authorization
  with the current unseal keys, the new unseal keys are returned but the root
  key is not actually rotated. The new keys must be provided to authorize the
  actual rotation of the root key. This ensures that the new keys have been
  successfully saved and protects against a risk of the keys being lost after
  rotation but before their successful persistence. This can be used with or
  without `pgp_keys` parameter. Using both ensures that the returned keys can
  be successfully decrypted before committing to the new shares, which the
  backup functionality does not provide.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "secret_shares": 10,
  "secret_threshold": 5
}
```

### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/init
```
or
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/init
```

## Cancel rotation

This endpoint cancels any in-progress rotation. This clears the rotation
settings as well as any progress made. This must be called to change the
parameters of the rotation.
Note: verification is still a part of a rotation. If rotation is canceled
during the verification flow, the current unseal keys remain valid.

| Method   | Path                                |
| :------- | :---------------------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/sys/rotate/(root\|recovery)/init` |


### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/init
```
or
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/init
```

Commit message:

refactor: added info panel to newly introduced endpoints in v2.4.0
Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

website/content/api-docs/system/rotate/init.mdx, after:

---
description: The `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/init` endpoints are used to initialize, cancel or retrieve status of the unseal keys rotation for OpenBao.
---

# `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/init`

:::info

The `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/init` endpoints are available from version `v2.4.0`.

:::

On seals that support stored keys (e.g. HSM PKCS#11), the recovery key share(s)
can be provided to rotate the root key since no unseal keys are available. The
secret shares, secret threshold, and stored shares parameters must be set to 1.
Upon successful rotation, no split unseal key shares are returned.

## Read rotation progress

This endpoint reads the configuration and progress of the current rotation attempt.

| Method | Path                               |
| :----- | :--------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/rotate/(root\|recovery)/init`|


### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/init
```
or
```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/init
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "request_id": "9311c844-6be7-3c00-d2bc-e97fa8345338",
  "lease_id": "",
  "renewable": false,
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "data": {
    "started": true,
    "nonce": "2dbd10f1-8528-6246-09e7-82b25b8aba63",
    "t": 3,
    "n": 5,
    "progress": 1,
    "required": 3,
    "pgp_fingerprints": ["abcd1234"],
    "backup": true,
    "verification_required": false
  },
  "wrap_info": null,
  "warnings": null,
  "auth": null
}
```

If a rotation is started, then `n` is the number of new shares to generate and
`t` is the threshold required for the unseal. `progress` is how many unseal keys
have been provided for this rotation, where `required` must be reached to complete.
The `nonce` for the current rotation is also displayed. 
If PGP keys are being used to encrypt the final shares, the key fingerprints and
property dictating whether the final keys will be backed up to physical storage
are also be displayed.
`verification_required` indicates whether verification was enabled for this
operation.


## Start rotation

This endpoint initializes a new rotation attempt. Only a single rotation attempt
can take place at a time. To change the parameters of a rotation, the current
rotation has to be cancelled, and a new one has to be initialized, which also
provides a new nonce.

If the server was initialized with no recovery keys, `/sys/rotate/root/init`
endpoint will not work as no recovery keys are present. To rotate the root
key, use the `/sys/rotate/root` [endpoint](/api-docs/system/rotate/root) instead.
When rotating recovery keys, `/sys/rotate/recovery/init` will immediate return
the specified number of recovery key shares.

| Method | Path                                |
| :----- | :---------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/rotate/(root\|recovery)/init` |

### Parameters

- `secret_shares` `(int: <required>)` - Specifies the number of shares to split
  the root key into.

- `secret_threshold` `(int: <required>)` - Specifies the number of shares
  required to reconstruct the root key. This must be less than or equal to
  `secret_shares`.

- `pgp_keys` `(array<string>: nil)` - Specifies an array of PGP public keys used
  to encrypt the output unseal keys. Ordering is preserved. The keys must be
  base64-encoded from their original binary representation. The size of this
  array must be the same as `secret_shares`.

- `backup` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if using PGP-encrypted keys, whether
  OpenBao should also store a plaintext backup of the PGP-encrypted keys at
  `core/unseal-keys-backup` (or `core/recovery-keys-backup`) in the physical
  storage backend. These can then be retrieved and removed via the
  `sys/rotate/root/backup` (or `sys/rotate/recovery/backup`) endpoints.

- `require_verification` `(bool: false)` - Specifies usage of verification
  functionality. When verification is turned on, after successful authorization
  with the current unseal keys, the new unseal keys are returned but the root
  key is not actually rotated. The new keys must be provided to authorize the
  actual rotation of the root key. This ensures that the new keys have been
  successfully saved and protects against a risk of the keys being lost after
  rotation but before their successful persistence. This can be used with or
  without `pgp_keys` parameter. Using both ensures that the returned keys can
  be successfully decrypted before committing to the new shares, which the
  backup functionality does not provide.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "secret_shares": 10,
  "secret_threshold": 5
}
```

### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/init
```
or
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/init
```

## Cancel rotation

This endpoint cancels any in-progress rotation. This clears the rotation
settings as well as any progress made. This must be called to change the
parameters of the rotation.
Note: verification is still a part of a rotation. If rotation is canceled
during the verification flow, the current unseal keys remain valid.

| Method   | Path                                |
| :------- | :---------------------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/sys/rotate/(root\|recovery)/init` |


### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/init
```
or
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/init
```
