website/content/api-docs/system/rotate/keyring-config.mdx, before:

---
description: The `/sys/rotate/keyring/config` endpoint is used to configure or read automatic key rotation config.
---

# `/sys/rotate/keyring/config`

The `/sys/rotate/keyring/config` endpoint is used to configure automatic key rotation.

Note: Old endpoint format of `/sys/rotate/config` is still supported, although `/sys/rotate/keyring/config` is preferred.

## Configure automatic key rotation

This endpoint configures the automatic rotation of the backend encryption key. By
default, the key is rotated after just under 4 billion encryptions, to satisfy the
recommendation of [NIST SP 800-38D](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-38d/final).
Operators can configure rotations after fewer encryptions or on a time based schedule.

## Create or update the auto rotation configuration

| Method | Path                         |
| :----- | :--------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/rotate/keyring/config` |
| `POST` | `/sys/rotate/config`         |

### Parameters

- `max_operations` `(int: 3865470566)` - Specify the limit of encryptions after which
  the key will be automatically rotated. The number must be between 1,000,000 and the
  default.
- `interval` `(string: "")` - If set, the age of the active key at which an
  automatic rotation is triggered. Specified as a Go duration string (e.g.
  4320h), the value must be at least 24 hours.
- `enabled` `(bool: true)` - If set to false, automatic rotations will not
  be performed. Tracking of encryption counts will continue.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "max_operations": 2000000000,
  "interval": "4320h"
}
```

### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/keyring/config
```
or 
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/config
```

## Get the auto rotation configuration

| Method | Path                         |
| :----- | :--------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/rotate/keyring/config` |
| `GET`  | `/sys/rotate/config`         |

### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request GET \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/keyring/config
```
or 
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request GET \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/config
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "request_id": "f3d91b4a-69bf-4aaf-b928-df7a5486c130",
  "lease_id": "",
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "renewable": false,
  "data": {
    "max_operations": 2000000000,
    "interval": "4320h",
    "enabled": true
  },
  "warnings": null
}
```

Commit message:

refactor: added info panel to newly introduced endpoints in v2.4.0
Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

website/content/api-docs/system/rotate/keyring-config.mdx, after:

---
description: The `/sys/rotate/keyring/config` endpoint is used to configure or read automatic key rotation config.
---

# `/sys/rotate/keyring/config`

:::info

The `/sys/rotate/keyring/config` endpoint is available from version `v2.4.0`.

:::

The `/sys/rotate/keyring/config` endpoint is used to configure automatic key rotation.

Note: Old endpoint format of `/sys/rotate/config` is still supported, although `/sys/rotate/keyring/config` is preferred.

## Configure automatic key rotation

This endpoint configures the automatic rotation of the backend encryption key. By
default, the key is rotated after just under 4 billion encryptions, to satisfy the
recommendation of [NIST SP 800-38D](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-38d/final).
Operators can configure rotations after fewer encryptions or on a time based schedule.

## Create or update the auto rotation configuration

| Method | Path                         |
| :----- | :--------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/rotate/keyring/config` |
| `POST` | `/sys/rotate/config`         |

### Parameters

- `max_operations` `(int: 3865470566)` - Specify the limit of encryptions after
  which the key will be automatically rotated. The number must be between
  1,000,000 and the default.
- `interval` `(string: "")` - If set, the age of the active key at which an
  automatic rotation is triggered. Specified as a Go duration string (e.g. 4320h),
  the value must be at least 24 hours.
- `enabled` `(bool: true)` - If set to false, automatic rotations will not
  be performed. Tracking of encryption counts will continue.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "max_operations": 2000000000,
  "interval": "4320h"
}
```

### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/keyring/config
```
or 
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/config
```

## Get the auto rotation configuration

| Method | Path                         |
| :----- | :--------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/rotate/keyring/config` |
| `GET`  | `/sys/rotate/config`         |

### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request GET \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/keyring/config
```
or 
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request GET \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/config
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "request_id": "f3d91b4a-69bf-4aaf-b928-df7a5486c130",
  "lease_id": "",
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "renewable": false,
  "data": {
    "max_operations": 2000000000,
    "interval": "4320h",
    "enabled": true
  },
  "warnings": null
}
```
