website/content/api-docs/system/rotate/keyring.mdx, before:

---
description: The `/sys/rotate/keyring` endpoint is used to rotate the encryption key.
---

# `/sys/rotate/keyring`

The `/sys/rotate/keyring` endpoint is used to rotate the encryption key.

Old endpoint format of `/sys/rotate` is still supported, although `/sys/rotate/keyring` is preferred.

## Rotate encryption key

This endpoint triggers a rotation of the backend encryption key. This is the key
that is used to encrypt data written to the storage backend, which is not provided
to the operators. This operation is done online. Future values are encrypted with
the new key, while old values are decrypted with previous encryption key.

This path requires `sudo` capability in addition to `update`.

| Method | Path                  |
| :----- | :-------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/rotate/keyring` |
| `POST` | `/sys/rotate`         |

### Sample request

#### New format

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/keyring
```

#### Old format

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate
```

Commit message:

refactor: added info panel to newly introduced endpoints in v2.4.0
Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

website/content/api-docs/system/rotate/keyring.mdx, after:

---
description: The `/sys/rotate/keyring` endpoint is used to rotate the encryption key.
---

# `/sys/rotate/keyring`

:::info

The `/sys/rotate/keyring` endpoint is available from version `v2.4.0`.

:::

The `/sys/rotate/keyring` endpoint is used to rotate the encryption key.

Old endpoint format of `/sys/rotate` is still supported, although `/sys/rotate/keyring` is preferred.

## Rotate encryption key

This endpoint triggers a rotation of the backend encryption key. This is the key
that is used to encrypt data written to the storage backend, which is not provided
to the operators. This operation is done online. Future values are encrypted with
the new key, while old values are decrypted with previous encryption key.

This path requires `sudo` capability in addition to `update`.

| Method | Path                  |
| :----- | :-------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/rotate/keyring` |
| `POST` | `/sys/rotate`         |

### Sample request

#### New format

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/keyring
```

#### Old format

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate
```
