website/content/api-docs/system/rotate/update.mdx, before:

---
description: The `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/update` endpoint is used to progress rotation of the unseal keys for OpenBao.
---

# `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/update`

This endpoint is used to enter a single key share to progress the rotation
of the OpenBao. If the threshold number of key shares is reached, OpenBao will
complete the rotation. Otherwise, this API call must be repeated until 
threshold is met. The nonce must be provided with each call.

When the operation is complete, response will be returned in the format of the 
example below; otherwise the response will be the same as the `GET` method
against `sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/init`, providing current operation status.

If verification was requested, successfully completing this flow will
immediately put the operation into a verification state, and return the nonce
used for the verification operation.

| Method | Path                                  |
| :----- | :------------------------------------ |
| `POST` | `/sys/rotate/(root\|recovery)/update` |

### Parameters

- `key` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies a single root share key.

- `nonce` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the nonce of the rotation.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "key": "AB32...",
  "nonce": "abcd1234..."
}
```

### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/update
```
or
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/update
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "request_id": "9311c844-6be7-3c00-d2bc-e97fa8345338",
  "lease_id": "",
  "renewable": false,
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "data": {
    "complete": true,
    "keys": ["one", "two", "three"],
    "nonce": "2dbd10f1-8528-6246-09e7-82b25b8aba63",
    "pgp_fingerprints": ["abcd1234"],
    "keys_base64": ["base64keyvalue"],
    "backup": true,
    "verification_required": true,
    "verification_nonce": "8b112c9e-2738-929d-bcc2-19aff249ff10"
  },
  "wrap_info": null,
  "warnings": null,
  "auth": null
}
```

If the keys are PGP-encrypted, an array of key fingerprints will also be
provided (with preserved initial order in which the keys were used for
encryption) along with information whether or not the keys were backed
up to physical storage.

Commit message:

refactor: added info panel to newly introduced endpoints in v2.4.0
Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

website/content/api-docs/system/rotate/update.mdx, after:

---
description: The `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/update` endpoint is used to progress rotation of the unseal keys for OpenBao.
---

# `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/update`

:::info

The `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/update` endpoints are available from version `v2.4.0`.

:::

This endpoint is used to enter a single key share to progress the rotation
of the OpenBao. If the threshold number of key shares is reached, OpenBao will
complete the rotation. Otherwise, this API call must be repeated until 
threshold is met. The nonce must be provided with each call.

When the operation is complete, response will be returned in the format of the 
example below; otherwise the response will be the same as the `GET` method
against `sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/init`, providing current operation status.

If verification was requested, successfully completing this flow will
immediately put the operation into a verification state, and return the nonce
used for the verification operation.

| Method | Path                                  |
| :----- | :------------------------------------ |
| `POST` | `/sys/rotate/(root\|recovery)/update` |

### Parameters

- `key` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies a single root share key.

- `nonce` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the nonce of the rotation.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "key": "AB32...",
  "nonce": "abcd1234..."
}
```

### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/update
```
or
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/update
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "request_id": "9311c844-6be7-3c00-d2bc-e97fa8345338",
  "lease_id": "",
  "renewable": false,
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "data": {
    "complete": true,
    "keys": ["one", "two", "three"],
    "nonce": "2dbd10f1-8528-6246-09e7-82b25b8aba63",
    "pgp_fingerprints": ["abcd1234"],
    "keys_base64": ["base64keyvalue"],
    "backup": true,
    "verification_required": true,
    "verification_nonce": "8b112c9e-2738-929d-bcc2-19aff249ff10"
  },
  "wrap_info": null,
  "warnings": null,
  "auth": null
}
```

If the keys are PGP-encrypted, an array of key fingerprints will also be
provided (with preserved initial order in which the keys were used for
encryption) along with information whether or not the keys were backed
up to physical storage.
