website/content/api-docs/system/rotate/verify.mdx, before:

---
description: The `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/verify` endpoints are used to read, progress or cancel rotation verification operation for OpenBao.
---

# `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/verify`

## Read rotation verification progress

This endpoint reads the configuration and progress of the current rotation
verification attempt.

| Method | Path                                  |
| :----- | :------------------------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/sys/rotate/(root\|recovery)/verify` |

### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/verify
```
or
```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/verify
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "request_id": "9311c844-6be7-3c00-d2bc-e97fa8345338",
  "lease_id": "",
  "renewable": false,
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "data": {
    "nonce": "8b112c9e-2738-929d-bcc2-19aff249ff10",
    "t": 3,
    "n": 5,
    "progress": 1
  },
   "wrap_info": null,
  "warnings": null,
  "auth": null
}
```

Where `n` is the total number of new shares that were generated and `t` is the
threshold required for the new shares to pass verification. `progress` is how
many of the new unseal keys have been provided for this verification operation.
The `nonce` for the current rotation is also displayed.

## Cancel rotation verification

This endpoint cancels any in-progress rotation verification operation. This
clears any progress made and resets the nonce. Unlike a `DELETE` against
`sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/init`, this only resets the current verification
operation, not the entire rotation attempt. The return value is the same as
`GET` along with the new nonce.

| Method   | Path                                    |
| :------- | :-------------------------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/sys/rotation/(root\|recovery)/verify` |

### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/verify
```
or
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/verify
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "nonce": "5827bbc1-0110-5725-cc21-beddc129d942",
  "t": 3,
  "n": 5,
  "progress": 0
}
```

## Submit verification key

This endpoint is used to enter a single new key share to progress the rotation
verification operation. If the threshold number of key shares is reached, 
OpenBao will complete the verification. Otherwise, this API call must be
repeated until threshold is met. The nonce must be provided with each call.

When the operation is complete, response will be returned in the format of the
example below; otherwise the response will be the same as the `GET` method
against `sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/verify`, providing current operation status.

| Method | Path                                  |
| :----- | :------------------------------------ |
| `POST` | `/sys/rotate/(root\|recovery)/verify` |

### Parameters

- `key` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies a single root share key from the
  new set of shares.

- `nonce` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the nonce of the rotation
  verification operation.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "key": "A58d...",
  "nonce": "5a27bbc1..."
}
```

### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/verify
```
or
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/verify
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "nonce": "5827bbc1-0110-5725-cc21-beddc129d942",
  "complete": true
}
```

Commit message:

refactor: added info panel to newly introduced endpoints in v2.4.0
Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

website/content/api-docs/system/rotate/verify.mdx, after:

---
description: The `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/verify` endpoints are used to read, progress or cancel rotation verification operation for OpenBao.
---

# `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/verify`

:::info

The `/sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/verify` endpoints are available from version `v2.4.0`.

:::

## Read rotation verification progress

This endpoint reads the configuration and progress of the current rotation
verification attempt.

| Method | Path                                  |
| :----- | :------------------------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/sys/rotate/(root\|recovery)/verify` |

### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/verify
```
or
```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/verify
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "request_id": "9311c844-6be7-3c00-d2bc-e97fa8345338",
  "lease_id": "",
  "renewable": false,
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "data": {
    "nonce": "8b112c9e-2738-929d-bcc2-19aff249ff10",
    "t": 3,
    "n": 5,
    "progress": 1
  },
   "wrap_info": null,
  "warnings": null,
  "auth": null
}
```

Where `n` is the total number of new shares that were generated and `t` is the
threshold required for the new shares to pass verification. `progress` is how
many of the new unseal keys have been provided for this verification operation.
The `nonce` for the current rotation is also displayed.

## Cancel rotation verification

This endpoint cancels any in-progress rotation verification operation. This
clears any progress made and resets the nonce. Unlike a `DELETE` against
`sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/init`, this only resets the current verification
operation, not the entire rotation attempt. The return value is the same as
`GET` along with the new nonce.

| Method   | Path                                    |
| :------- | :-------------------------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/sys/rotation/(root\|recovery)/verify` |

### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/verify
```
or
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/verify
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "nonce": "5827bbc1-0110-5725-cc21-beddc129d942",
  "t": 3,
  "n": 5,
  "progress": 0
}
```

## Submit verification key

This endpoint is used to enter a single new key share to progress the rotation
verification operation. If the threshold number of key shares is reached, 
OpenBao will complete the verification. Otherwise, this API call must be
repeated until threshold is met. The nonce must be provided with each call.

When the operation is complete, response will be returned in the format of the
example below; otherwise the response will be the same as the `GET` method
against `sys/rotate/(root|recovery)/verify`, providing current operation status.

| Method | Path                                  |
| :----- | :------------------------------------ |
| `POST` | `/sys/rotate/(root\|recovery)/verify` |

### Parameters

- `key` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies a single root share key from the
  new set of shares.

- `nonce` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the nonce of the rotation
  verification operation.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "key": "A58d...",
  "nonce": "5a27bbc1..."
}
```

### Sample requests

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/root/verify
```
or
```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/rotate/recovery/verify
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "nonce": "5827bbc1-0110-5725-cc21-beddc129d942",
  "complete": true
}
```
