website/content/docs/platform/k8s/helm/run.mdx, before:

---
description: >-
  OpenBao can run directly on Kubernetes in various configurations.  For
  pure-Kubernetes workloads, this enables OpenBao to also exist purely within
  Kubernetes.
---

# Run OpenBao on Kubernetes

OpenBao works with Kubernetes in various modes: `dev`, `standalone`, `ha`,
and `external`.

:::warning

**Important Note:** This chart is not compatible with Helm 2. Please use Helm 3.6+ with this chart.

:::

## Helm chart

The [OpenBao Helm chart](https://github.com/openbao/openbao-helm)
is the recommended way to install and configure OpenBao on Kubernetes.
In addition to running OpenBao itself, the Helm chart is the primary
method for installing and configuring OpenBao to integrate with other
services such as Consul for High Availability (HA) deployments.

While the Helm chart automatically sets up complex resources and exposes the
configuration to meet your requirements, it **does not automatically operate
OpenBao.** You are still responsible for learning how to monitor, backup, upgrade,
etc. the OpenBao cluster.

:::warning

**Security Warning:** By default, the chart runs in standalone mode. This
mode uses a single OpenBao server with a file storage backend. This is a less
secure and less resilient installation that is **NOT** appropriate for a
production setup. It is highly recommended to use a [properly secured Kubernetes
cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/securing-a-cluster/),
[learn the available configuration
options](/docs/platform/k8s/helm/configuration), and read the [production deployment
checklist](/docs/platform/k8s/helm/run#architecture).

:::

## How-To

### Install OpenBao

Helm must be installed and configured on your machine. Please refer to the [Helm
documentation](https://helm.sh/) for more information.

To use the Helm chart, add the Hashicorp helm repository and check that you have
access to the chart:

@include 'helm/repo.mdx'

:::info

**Important:** The Helm chart is new and under significant development.
Please always run Helm with `--dry-run` before any install or upgrade to verify
changes.

:::

Use `helm install` to install the latest release of the OpenBao Helm chart.

```shell-session
$ helm install openbao openbao/openbao
```

Or install a specific version of the chart.

@include 'helm/install.mdx'

The `helm install` command accepts parameters to override default configuration
values inline or defined in a file.

Override the `server.dev.enabled` configuration value:

```shell-session
$ helm install openbao openbao/openbao \
    --set "server.dev.enabled=true"
```

Override all the configuration found in a file:

```shell-session
$ cat override-values.yml
server:
  ha:
    enabled: true
    replicas: 5
##
$ helm install openbao openbao/openbao \
    --values override-values.yml
```

#### Dev mode

The Helm chart may run a OpenBao server in development. This installs a single
OpenBao server with a memory storage backend.

:::info

**Dev mode:** This is ideal for learning and demonstration environments but
NOT recommended for a production environment.

:::

Install the latest OpenBao Helm chart in development mode.

```shell-session
$ helm install openbao openbao/openbao \
    --set "server.dev.enabled=true"
```

#### Standalone mode

The Helm chart defaults to run in `standalone` mode. This installs a single
OpenBao server with a file storage backend.

Install the latest OpenBao Helm chart in standalone mode.

```shell-session
$ helm install openbao openbao/openbao
```

#### HA mode

The Helm chart may be run in high availability (HA) mode. This installs three
OpenBao servers with an existing integrated storage backend.
Install the latest OpenBao Helm chart in HA mode.

```shell-session
$ helm install openbao openbao/openbao \
    --set "server.ha.enabled=true"
```

#### External mode

The Helm chart may be run in external mode. This installs no OpenBao server and
relies on a network addressable OpenBao server to exist.

Install the latest OpenBao Helm chart in external mode.

```shell-session
$ helm install openbao openbao/openbao \
    --set "injector.externalVaultAddr=http://external-openbao:8200"
```

### View the OpenBao UI

The OpenBao UI is enabled but NOT exposed as service for security reasons. The
OpenBao UI can also be exposed via port-forwarding or through a [`ui`
configuration value](/docs/platform/k8s/helm/configuration/#ui).

Expose the OpenBao UI with port-forwarding:

```shell-session
$ kubectl port-forward openbao-0 8200:8200
Forwarding from 127.0.0.1:8200 -> 8200
Forwarding from [::1]:8200 -> 8200
##...
```

### Initialize and unseal OpenBao

After the OpenBao Helm chart is installed in `standalone` or `ha` mode one of the
OpenBao servers need to be
[initialized](/docs/commands/operator/init). The
initialization generates the credentials necessary to
[unseal](/docs/concepts/seal#why) all the OpenBao
servers.

#### CLI initialize and unseal

View all the OpenBao pods in the current namespace:

```shell-session
$ kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=openbao
NAME                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
openbao-0                                 0/1     Running   0          1m49s
openbao-1                                 0/1     Running   0          1m49s
openbao-2                                 0/1     Running   0          1m49s
```

Initialize one OpenBao server with the default number of key shares and default
key threshold:

```shell-session
$ kubectl exec -ti openbao-0 -- bao operator init
Unseal Key 1: MBFSDepD9E6whREc6Dj+k3pMaKJ6cCnCUWcySJQymObb
Unseal Key 2: zQj4v22k9ixegS+94HJwmIaWLBL3nZHe1i+b/wHz25fr
Unseal Key 3: 7dbPPeeGGW3SmeBFFo04peCKkXFuuyKc8b2DuntA4VU5
Unseal Key 4: tLt+ME7Z7hYUATfWnuQdfCEgnKA2L173dptAwfmenCdf
Unseal Key 5: vYt9bxLr0+OzJ8m7c7cNMFj7nvdLljj0xWRbpLezFAI9

Initial Root Token: s.zJNwZlRrqISjyBHFMiEca6GF
##...
```

The output displays the key shares and initial root key generated.

Unseal the OpenBao server with the key shares until the key threshold is met:

```sh
## Unseal the first openbao server until it reaches the key threshold
$ kubectl exec -ti openbao-0 -- bao operator unseal # ... Unseal Key 1
$ kubectl exec -ti openbao-0 -- bao operator unseal # ... Unseal Key 2
$ kubectl exec -ti openbao-0 -- bao operator unseal # ... Unseal Key 3
```

Repeat the unseal process for all OpenBao server pods. When all OpenBao server pods
are unsealed they report READY `1/1`.

```shell-session
$ kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=openbao
NAME                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
openbao-0                                 1/1     Running   0          1m49s
openbao-1                                 1/1     Running   0          1m49s
openbao-2                                 1/1     Running   0          1m49s
```

#### Google KMS auto unseal

The Helm chart may be run with [Google KMS for Auto
Unseal](/docs/configuration/seal/gcpckms). This enables OpenBao server pods to
auto unseal if they are rescheduled.

OpenBao Helm requires the Google Cloud KMS credentials stored in
`credentials.json` and mounted as a secret in each OpenBao server pod.

##### Create the secret

First, create the secret in Kubernetes:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic kms-creds --from-file=credentials.json
```

OpenBao Helm mounts this to `/openbao/userconfig/kms-creds/credentials.json`.

##### Config example

This is a OpenBao Helm configuration that uses Google KMS:

```yaml
global:
  enabled: true

server:
  extraEnvironmentVars:
    GOOGLE_REGION: global
    GOOGLE_PROJECT: <PROJECT NAME>
    GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS: /openbao/userconfig/kms-creds/credentials.json

  volumes:
    - name: userconfig-kms-creds
      secret:
        defaultMode: 420
        secretName: kms-creds

  volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /openbao/userconfig/kms-creds
      name: userconfig-kms-creds
      readOnly: true

  ha:
    enabled: true
    replicas: 3

    config: |
      ui = true

      listener "tcp" {
        tls_disable = 1
        address = "[::]:8200"
        cluster_address = "[::]:8201"
      }

      seal "gcpckms" {
        project     = "<NAME OF PROJECT>"
        region      = "global"
        key_ring    = "<NAME OF KEYRING>"
        crypto_key  = "<NAME OF KEY>"
      }
```

#### Amazon KMS auto unseal

The Helm chart may be run with [AWS KMS for Auto
Unseal](/docs/configuration/seal/awskms). This enables OpenBao server pods to auto
unseal if they are rescheduled.

OpenBao Helm requires the AWS credentials stored as environment variables that
are defined in each OpenBao server pod.

##### Create the secret

First, create a secret with your KMS access key/secret:

```shell-session
$ kubectl create secret generic kms-creds \
    --from-literal=AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID?}" \
    --from-literal=AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY?}"
```

##### Config example

This is a OpenBao Helm configuration that uses AWS KMS:

```yaml
global:
  enabled: true

server:
  extraSecretEnvironmentVars:
    - envName: AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
      secretName: kms-creds
      secretKey: AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
    - envName: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
      secretName: kms-creds
      secretKey: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY

  ha:
    enabled: true
    config: |
      ui = true

      listener "tcp" {
        tls_disable = 1
        address = "[::]:8200"
        cluster_address = "[::]:8201"
      }

      seal "awskms" {
        region     = "KMS_REGION_HERE"
        kms_key_id = "KMS_KEY_ID_HERE"
      }
```

### Probes

Probes are essential for detecting failures, rescheduling and using pods in
Kubernetes. The helm chart offers configurable readiness and liveliness probes
which can be customized for a variety of use cases.

OpenBao's [/sys/health`](/api-docs/system/health) endpoint can be customized to
change the behavior of the health check. For example, we can change the OpenBao
readiness probe to show the OpenBao pods are ready even if they're still uninitialized
and sealed using the following probe:

```yaml
server:
  readinessProbe:
    enabled: true
    path: '/v1/sys/health?standbyok=true&sealedcode=204&uninitcode=204'
```

Using this customized probe, a `postStart` script could automatically run once the
pod is ready for additional setup.

### Upgrading OpenBao on kubernetes

To upgrade OpenBao on Kubernetes, we follow the same pattern as
[generally upgrading OpenBao](/docs/upgrading), except we can use
the Helm chart to update the OpenBao server StatefulSet. It is important to understand
how to [generally upgrade OpenBao](/docs/upgrading) before reading this
section.

The OpenBao StatefulSet uses `OnDelete` update strategy. It is critical to use `OnDelete` instead
of `RollingUpdate` because standbys must be updated before the active primary. A
failover to an older version of OpenBao must always be avoided.

:::danger

**IMPORTANT NOTE:** Always back up your data before upgrading! OpenBao does not
make backward-compatibility guarantees for its data store. Simply replacing the
newly-installed OpenBao binary with the previous version may not cleanly
downgrade OpenBao, as upgrades may perform changes to the underlying data
structure that make the data incompatible with a downgrade. If you need to roll
back to a previous version of OpenBao, you should roll back your data store as
well.

:::

#### Upgrading OpenBao servers

:::danger

**IMPORTANT NOTE:** Helm will install the latest chart found in a repo by default.
It's recommended to specify the chart version when upgrading.

:::

To initiate the upgrade, set the `server.image` values to the desired OpenBao
version, either in a values yaml file or on the command line. For illustrative
purposes, the example below uses `openbao:123.456`.

```yaml
server:
  image:
    repository: 'openbao'
    tag: '123.456'
```

Next, list the Helm versions and choose the desired version to install.

```bash
$ helm search repo openbao/openbao                            
NAME            CHART VERSION   APP VERSION             DESCRIPTION           
openbao/openbao 0.4.0           v2.0.0-alpha20240329    Official OpenBao Chart
```

Next, test the upgrade with `--dry-run` first to verify the changes sent to the
Kubernetes cluster.

```shell-session
$ helm upgrade openbao openbao/openbao --version=0.4.0 \
    --set='server.image.repository=openbao' \
    --set='server.image.tag=123.456' \
    --dry-run
```

This should cause no changes (although the resources are updated). If
everything is stable, `helm upgrade` can be run.

The `helm upgrade` command should have updated the StatefulSet template for
the OpenBao servers, however, no pods have been deleted. The pods must be manually
deleted to upgrade. Deleting the pods does not delete any persisted data.

If OpenBao is not deployed using `ha` mode, the single OpenBao server may be deleted by
running:

```shell-session
$ kubectl delete pod <name of OpenBao pod>
```

If OpenBao is deployed using `ha` mode, the standby pods must be upgraded first.
OpenBao has K8s service discovery built in (when enabled in the server configuration) and
will automatically change the labels of the pod with its current leader status. These labels
can be used to filter the pods.

For example, select all pods that are OpenBao standbys:

```shell-session
$ kubectl get pods -l openbao-active=false
```

Select the active OpenBao pod:

```shell-session
$ kubectl get pods -l openbao-active=true
```

Next, sequentially delete every pod that is not the active primary, ensuring the quorum is maintained at all times:

```shell-session
$ kubectl delete pod <name of OpenBao pod>
```

If auto-unseal is not being used, the newly scheduled OpenBao standby pods needs
to be unsealed:

```shell-session
$ kubectl exec -ti <name of pod> -- bao operator unseal
```

Finally, once the standby nodes have been updated and unsealed, delete the active
primary:

```shell-session
$ kubectl delete pod <name of OpenBao primary>
```

Similar to the standby nodes, the former primary also needs to be unsealed:

```shell-session
$ kubectl exec -ti <name of pod> -- bao operator unseal
```

After a few moments the OpenBao cluster should elect a new active primary. The OpenBao
cluster is now upgraded!

### Protecting sensitive OpenBao configurations

OpenBao Helm renders a OpenBao configuration file during installation and stores the
file in a Kubernetes configmap. Some configurations require sensitive data to be
included in the configuration file and would not be encrypted at rest once created
in Kubernetes.

The following example shows how to add extra configuration files to OpenBao Helm
to protect sensitive configurations from being in plaintext at rest using Kubernetes
secrets.

First, create a partial OpenBao configuration with the sensitive settings OpenBao
loads during startup:

```shell-session
$ cat <<EOF >>config.hcl
storage "mysql" {
username = "user1234"
password = "secret123!"
database = "openbao"
}
EOF
```

Next, create a Kubernetes secret containing this partial configuration:

```shell-session
$ kubectl create secret generic openbao-storage-config \
    --from-file=config.hcl
```

Finally, mount this secret as an extra volume and add an additional `-config` flag
to the OpenBao startup command:

```shell-session
$ helm install openbao openbao/openbao \
  --set='server.volumes[0].name=userconfig-openbao-storage-config' \
  --set='server.volumes[0].secret.defaultMode=420' \
  --set='server.volumes[0].secret.secretName=openbao-storage-config' \
  --set='server.volumeMounts[0].mountPath=/openbao/userconfig/openbao-storage-config' \
  --set='server.volumeMounts[0].name=userconfig-openbao-storage-config' \
  --set='server.volumeMounts[0].readOnly=true' \
  --set='server.extraArgs=-config=/openbao/userconfig/openbao-storage-config/config.hcl'
```

## Architecture

We recommend running OpenBao on Kubernetes with the same
[general architecture](/docs/internals/architecture)
as running it anywhere else. There are some benefits Kubernetes can provide
that eases operating a OpenBao cluster and we document those below.

### Production deployment checklist

_End-to-End TLS._ OpenBao should always be used with TLS in production. If
intermediate load balancers or reverse proxies are used to front OpenBao,
they should not terminate TLS. This way traffic is always encrypted in transit
to OpenBao and minimizes risks introduced by intermediate layers.

_Single Tenancy._ OpenBao should be the only main process running on a machine.
This reduces the risk that another process running on the same machine is
compromised and can interact with OpenBao. This can be accomplished by using OpenBao
Helm's `affinity` configurable.

_Enable Auditing._ OpenBao supports several auditing backends. Enabling auditing
provides a history of all operations performed by OpenBao and provides a forensics
trail in the case of misuse or compromise. Audit logs securely hash any sensitive
data, but access should still be restricted to prevent any unintended disclosures.
OpenBao Helm includes a configurable `auditStorage` option that provisions a persistent
volume to store audit logs.

_Immutable Upgrades._ OpenBao relies on an external storage backend for persistence,
and this decoupling allows the servers running OpenBao to be managed immutably.
When upgrading to new versions, new servers with the upgraded version of OpenBao
are brought online. They are attached to the same shared storage backend and
unsealed. Then the old servers are destroyed. This reduces the need for remote
access and upgrade orchestration which may introduce security gaps. See the
[upgrade section](#how-to) for instructions
on upgrading OpenBao on Kubernetes.

_Upgrade Frequently._ OpenBao is actively developed, and updating frequently is
important to incorporate security fixes and any changes in default settings such
as key lengths or cipher suites. Subscribe to the OpenBao mailing list and
GitHub CHANGELOG for updates.

_Restrict Storage Access._ OpenBao encrypts all data at rest, regardless of which
storage backend is used. Although the data is encrypted, an attacker with arbitrary
control can cause data corruption or loss by modifying or deleting keys. Access
to the storage backend should be restricted to only OpenBao to avoid unauthorized
access or operations.

Commit message:

added warning for ui (#803)
Added a warning before the port forwarding section for the UI that the UI needs to be built from the source code and is not available on the helm chart

Signed-off-by: R Sriram <69243366+rinnegan72@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/docs/platform/k8s/helm/run.mdx, after:

---
description: >-
  OpenBao can run directly on Kubernetes in various configurations.  For
  pure-Kubernetes workloads, this enables OpenBao to also exist purely within
  Kubernetes.
---

# Run OpenBao on Kubernetes

OpenBao works with Kubernetes in various modes: `dev`, `standalone`, `ha`,
and `external`.

:::warning

**Important Note:** This chart is not compatible with Helm 2. Please use Helm 3.6+ with this chart.

:::

## Helm chart

The [OpenBao Helm chart](https://github.com/openbao/openbao-helm)
is the recommended way to install and configure OpenBao on Kubernetes.
In addition to running OpenBao itself, the Helm chart is the primary
method for installing and configuring OpenBao to integrate with other
services such as Consul for High Availability (HA) deployments.

While the Helm chart automatically sets up complex resources and exposes the
configuration to meet your requirements, it **does not automatically operate
OpenBao.** You are still responsible for learning how to monitor, backup, upgrade,
etc. the OpenBao cluster.

:::warning

**Security Warning:** By default, the chart runs in standalone mode. This
mode uses a single OpenBao server with a file storage backend. This is a less
secure and less resilient installation that is **NOT** appropriate for a
production setup. It is highly recommended to use a [properly secured Kubernetes
cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/securing-a-cluster/),
[learn the available configuration
options](/docs/platform/k8s/helm/configuration), and read the [production deployment
checklist](/docs/platform/k8s/helm/run#architecture).

:::

## How-To

### Install OpenBao

Helm must be installed and configured on your machine. Please refer to the [Helm
documentation](https://helm.sh/) for more information.

To use the Helm chart, add the Hashicorp helm repository and check that you have
access to the chart:

@include 'helm/repo.mdx'

:::info

**Important:** The Helm chart is new and under significant development.
Please always run Helm with `--dry-run` before any install or upgrade to verify
changes.

:::

Use `helm install` to install the latest release of the OpenBao Helm chart.

```shell-session
$ helm install openbao openbao/openbao
```

Or install a specific version of the chart.

@include 'helm/install.mdx'

The `helm install` command accepts parameters to override default configuration
values inline or defined in a file.

Override the `server.dev.enabled` configuration value:

```shell-session
$ helm install openbao openbao/openbao \
    --set "server.dev.enabled=true"
```

Override all the configuration found in a file:

```shell-session
$ cat override-values.yml
server:
  ha:
    enabled: true
    replicas: 5
##
$ helm install openbao openbao/openbao \
    --values override-values.yml
```

#### Dev mode

The Helm chart may run a OpenBao server in development. This installs a single
OpenBao server with a memory storage backend.

:::info

**Dev mode:** This is ideal for learning and demonstration environments but
NOT recommended for a production environment.

:::

Install the latest OpenBao Helm chart in development mode.

```shell-session
$ helm install openbao openbao/openbao \
    --set "server.dev.enabled=true"
```

#### Standalone mode

The Helm chart defaults to run in `standalone` mode. This installs a single
OpenBao server with a file storage backend.

Install the latest OpenBao Helm chart in standalone mode.

```shell-session
$ helm install openbao openbao/openbao
```

#### HA mode

The Helm chart may be run in high availability (HA) mode. This installs three
OpenBao servers with an existing integrated storage backend.
Install the latest OpenBao Helm chart in HA mode.

```shell-session
$ helm install openbao openbao/openbao \
    --set "server.ha.enabled=true"
```

#### External mode

The Helm chart may be run in external mode. This installs no OpenBao server and
relies on a network addressable OpenBao server to exist.

Install the latest OpenBao Helm chart in external mode.

```shell-session
$ helm install openbao openbao/openbao \
    --set "injector.externalVaultAddr=http://external-openbao:8200"
```

### View the OpenBao UI

The OpenBao UI is enabled but NOT exposed as service for security reasons. The
OpenBao UI can also be exposed via port-forwarding or through a [`ui`
configuration value](/docs/platform/k8s/helm/configuration/#ui).

:::warning

The UI for OpenBao needs to be built from the source (https://github.com/openbao/openbao) 
The Helm chart does not come with the UI ready at the moment.

:::

Expose the OpenBao UI with port-forwarding:

```shell-session
$ kubectl port-forward openbao-0 8200:8200
Forwarding from 127.0.0.1:8200 -> 8200
Forwarding from [::1]:8200 -> 8200
##...
```

### Initialize and unseal OpenBao

After the OpenBao Helm chart is installed in `standalone` or `ha` mode one of the
OpenBao servers need to be
[initialized](/docs/commands/operator/init). The
initialization generates the credentials necessary to
[unseal](/docs/concepts/seal#why) all the OpenBao
servers.

#### CLI initialize and unseal

View all the OpenBao pods in the current namespace:

```shell-session
$ kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=openbao
NAME                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
openbao-0                                 0/1     Running   0          1m49s
openbao-1                                 0/1     Running   0          1m49s
openbao-2                                 0/1     Running   0          1m49s
```

Initialize one OpenBao server with the default number of key shares and default
key threshold:

```shell-session
$ kubectl exec -ti openbao-0 -- bao operator init
Unseal Key 1: MBFSDepD9E6whREc6Dj+k3pMaKJ6cCnCUWcySJQymObb
Unseal Key 2: zQj4v22k9ixegS+94HJwmIaWLBL3nZHe1i+b/wHz25fr
Unseal Key 3: 7dbPPeeGGW3SmeBFFo04peCKkXFuuyKc8b2DuntA4VU5
Unseal Key 4: tLt+ME7Z7hYUATfWnuQdfCEgnKA2L173dptAwfmenCdf
Unseal Key 5: vYt9bxLr0+OzJ8m7c7cNMFj7nvdLljj0xWRbpLezFAI9

Initial Root Token: s.zJNwZlRrqISjyBHFMiEca6GF
##...
```

The output displays the key shares and initial root key generated.

Unseal the OpenBao server with the key shares until the key threshold is met:

```sh
## Unseal the first openbao server until it reaches the key threshold
$ kubectl exec -ti openbao-0 -- bao operator unseal # ... Unseal Key 1
$ kubectl exec -ti openbao-0 -- bao operator unseal # ... Unseal Key 2
$ kubectl exec -ti openbao-0 -- bao operator unseal # ... Unseal Key 3
```

Repeat the unseal process for all OpenBao server pods. When all OpenBao server pods
are unsealed they report READY `1/1`.

```shell-session
$ kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=openbao
NAME                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
openbao-0                                 1/1     Running   0          1m49s
openbao-1                                 1/1     Running   0          1m49s
openbao-2                                 1/1     Running   0          1m49s
```

#### Google KMS auto unseal

The Helm chart may be run with [Google KMS for Auto
Unseal](/docs/configuration/seal/gcpckms). This enables OpenBao server pods to
auto unseal if they are rescheduled.

OpenBao Helm requires the Google Cloud KMS credentials stored in
`credentials.json` and mounted as a secret in each OpenBao server pod.

##### Create the secret

First, create the secret in Kubernetes:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic kms-creds --from-file=credentials.json
```

OpenBao Helm mounts this to `/openbao/userconfig/kms-creds/credentials.json`.

##### Config example

This is a OpenBao Helm configuration that uses Google KMS:

```yaml
global:
  enabled: true

server:
  extraEnvironmentVars:
    GOOGLE_REGION: global
    GOOGLE_PROJECT: <PROJECT NAME>
    GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS: /openbao/userconfig/kms-creds/credentials.json

  volumes:
    - name: userconfig-kms-creds
      secret:
        defaultMode: 420
        secretName: kms-creds

  volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /openbao/userconfig/kms-creds
      name: userconfig-kms-creds
      readOnly: true

  ha:
    enabled: true
    replicas: 3

    config: |
      ui = true

      listener "tcp" {
        tls_disable = 1
        address = "[::]:8200"
        cluster_address = "[::]:8201"
      }

      seal "gcpckms" {
        project     = "<NAME OF PROJECT>"
        region      = "global"
        key_ring    = "<NAME OF KEYRING>"
        crypto_key  = "<NAME OF KEY>"
      }
```

#### Amazon KMS auto unseal

The Helm chart may be run with [AWS KMS for Auto
Unseal](/docs/configuration/seal/awskms). This enables OpenBao server pods to auto
unseal if they are rescheduled.

OpenBao Helm requires the AWS credentials stored as environment variables that
are defined in each OpenBao server pod.

##### Create the secret

First, create a secret with your KMS access key/secret:

```shell-session
$ kubectl create secret generic kms-creds \
    --from-literal=AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID?}" \
    --from-literal=AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY?}"
```

##### Config example

This is a OpenBao Helm configuration that uses AWS KMS:

```yaml
global:
  enabled: true

server:
  extraSecretEnvironmentVars:
    - envName: AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
      secretName: kms-creds
      secretKey: AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
    - envName: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
      secretName: kms-creds
      secretKey: AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY

  ha:
    enabled: true
    config: |
      ui = true

      listener "tcp" {
        tls_disable = 1
        address = "[::]:8200"
        cluster_address = "[::]:8201"
      }

      seal "awskms" {
        region     = "KMS_REGION_HERE"
        kms_key_id = "KMS_KEY_ID_HERE"
      }
```

### Probes

Probes are essential for detecting failures, rescheduling and using pods in
Kubernetes. The helm chart offers configurable readiness and liveliness probes
which can be customized for a variety of use cases.

OpenBao's [/sys/health`](/api-docs/system/health) endpoint can be customized to
change the behavior of the health check. For example, we can change the OpenBao
readiness probe to show the OpenBao pods are ready even if they're still uninitialized
and sealed using the following probe:

```yaml
server:
  readinessProbe:
    enabled: true
    path: '/v1/sys/health?standbyok=true&sealedcode=204&uninitcode=204'
```

Using this customized probe, a `postStart` script could automatically run once the
pod is ready for additional setup.

### Upgrading OpenBao on kubernetes

To upgrade OpenBao on Kubernetes, we follow the same pattern as
[generally upgrading OpenBao](/docs/upgrading), except we can use
the Helm chart to update the OpenBao server StatefulSet. It is important to understand
how to [generally upgrade OpenBao](/docs/upgrading) before reading this
section.

The OpenBao StatefulSet uses `OnDelete` update strategy. It is critical to use `OnDelete` instead
of `RollingUpdate` because standbys must be updated before the active primary. A
failover to an older version of OpenBao must always be avoided.

:::danger

**IMPORTANT NOTE:** Always back up your data before upgrading! OpenBao does not
make backward-compatibility guarantees for its data store. Simply replacing the
newly-installed OpenBao binary with the previous version may not cleanly
downgrade OpenBao, as upgrades may perform changes to the underlying data
structure that make the data incompatible with a downgrade. If you need to roll
back to a previous version of OpenBao, you should roll back your data store as
well.

:::

#### Upgrading OpenBao servers

:::danger

**IMPORTANT NOTE:** Helm will install the latest chart found in a repo by default.
It's recommended to specify the chart version when upgrading.

:::

To initiate the upgrade, set the `server.image` values to the desired OpenBao
version, either in a values yaml file or on the command line. For illustrative
purposes, the example below uses `openbao:123.456`.

```yaml
server:
  image:
    repository: 'openbao'
    tag: '123.456'
```

Next, list the Helm versions and choose the desired version to install.

```bash
$ helm search repo openbao/openbao                            
NAME            CHART VERSION   APP VERSION             DESCRIPTION           
openbao/openbao 0.4.0           v2.0.0-alpha20240329    Official OpenBao Chart
```

Next, test the upgrade with `--dry-run` first to verify the changes sent to the
Kubernetes cluster.

```shell-session
$ helm upgrade openbao openbao/openbao --version=0.4.0 \
    --set='server.image.repository=openbao' \
    --set='server.image.tag=123.456' \
    --dry-run
```

This should cause no changes (although the resources are updated). If
everything is stable, `helm upgrade` can be run.

The `helm upgrade` command should have updated the StatefulSet template for
the OpenBao servers, however, no pods have been deleted. The pods must be manually
deleted to upgrade. Deleting the pods does not delete any persisted data.

If OpenBao is not deployed using `ha` mode, the single OpenBao server may be deleted by
running:

```shell-session
$ kubectl delete pod <name of OpenBao pod>
```

If OpenBao is deployed using `ha` mode, the standby pods must be upgraded first.
OpenBao has K8s service discovery built in (when enabled in the server configuration) and
will automatically change the labels of the pod with its current leader status. These labels
can be used to filter the pods.

For example, select all pods that are OpenBao standbys:

```shell-session
$ kubectl get pods -l openbao-active=false
```

Select the active OpenBao pod:

```shell-session
$ kubectl get pods -l openbao-active=true
```

Next, sequentially delete every pod that is not the active primary, ensuring the quorum is maintained at all times:

```shell-session
$ kubectl delete pod <name of OpenBao pod>
```

If auto-unseal is not being used, the newly scheduled OpenBao standby pods needs
to be unsealed:

```shell-session
$ kubectl exec -ti <name of pod> -- bao operator unseal
```

Finally, once the standby nodes have been updated and unsealed, delete the active
primary:

```shell-session
$ kubectl delete pod <name of OpenBao primary>
```

Similar to the standby nodes, the former primary also needs to be unsealed:

```shell-session
$ kubectl exec -ti <name of pod> -- bao operator unseal
```

After a few moments the OpenBao cluster should elect a new active primary. The OpenBao
cluster is now upgraded!

### Protecting sensitive OpenBao configurations

OpenBao Helm renders a OpenBao configuration file during installation and stores the
file in a Kubernetes configmap. Some configurations require sensitive data to be
included in the configuration file and would not be encrypted at rest once created
in Kubernetes.

The following example shows how to add extra configuration files to OpenBao Helm
to protect sensitive configurations from being in plaintext at rest using Kubernetes
secrets.

First, create a partial OpenBao configuration with the sensitive settings OpenBao
loads during startup:

```shell-session
$ cat <<EOF >>config.hcl
storage "mysql" {
username = "user1234"
password = "secret123!"
database = "openbao"
}
EOF
```

Next, create a Kubernetes secret containing this partial configuration:

```shell-session
$ kubectl create secret generic openbao-storage-config \
    --from-file=config.hcl
```

Finally, mount this secret as an extra volume and add an additional `-config` flag
to the OpenBao startup command:

```shell-session
$ helm install openbao openbao/openbao \
  --set='server.volumes[0].name=userconfig-openbao-storage-config' \
  --set='server.volumes[0].secret.defaultMode=420' \
  --set='server.volumes[0].secret.secretName=openbao-storage-config' \
  --set='server.volumeMounts[0].mountPath=/openbao/userconfig/openbao-storage-config' \
  --set='server.volumeMounts[0].name=userconfig-openbao-storage-config' \
  --set='server.volumeMounts[0].readOnly=true' \
  --set='server.extraArgs=-config=/openbao/userconfig/openbao-storage-config/config.hcl'
```

## Architecture

We recommend running OpenBao on Kubernetes with the same
[general architecture](/docs/internals/architecture)
as running it anywhere else. There are some benefits Kubernetes can provide
that eases operating a OpenBao cluster and we document those below.

### Production deployment checklist

_End-to-End TLS._ OpenBao should always be used with TLS in production. If
intermediate load balancers or reverse proxies are used to front OpenBao,
they should not terminate TLS. This way traffic is always encrypted in transit
to OpenBao and minimizes risks introduced by intermediate layers.

_Single Tenancy._ OpenBao should be the only main process running on a machine.
This reduces the risk that another process running on the same machine is
compromised and can interact with OpenBao. This can be accomplished by using OpenBao
Helm's `affinity` configurable.

_Enable Auditing._ OpenBao supports several auditing backends. Enabling auditing
provides a history of all operations performed by OpenBao and provides a forensics
trail in the case of misuse or compromise. Audit logs securely hash any sensitive
data, but access should still be restricted to prevent any unintended disclosures.
OpenBao Helm includes a configurable `auditStorage` option that provisions a persistent
volume to store audit logs.

_Immutable Upgrades._ OpenBao relies on an external storage backend for persistence,
and this decoupling allows the servers running OpenBao to be managed immutably.
When upgrading to new versions, new servers with the upgraded version of OpenBao
are brought online. They are attached to the same shared storage backend and
unsealed. Then the old servers are destroyed. This reduces the need for remote
access and upgrade orchestration which may introduce security gaps. See the
[upgrade section](#how-to) for instructions
on upgrading OpenBao on Kubernetes.

_Upgrade Frequently._ OpenBao is actively developed, and updating frequently is
important to incorporate security fixes and any changes in default settings such
as key lengths or cipher suites. Subscribe to the OpenBao mailing list and
GitHub CHANGELOG for updates.

_Restrict Storage Access._ OpenBao encrypts all data at rest, regardless of which
storage backend is used. Although the data is encrypted, an attacker with arbitrary
control can cause data corruption or loss by modifying or deleting keys. Access
to the storage backend should be restricted to only OpenBao to avoid unauthorized
access or operations.
