website/content/docs/plugins/plugin-management.mdx, before:

---
description: >-
  External Plugins are mountable backends that are implemented using OpenBao's
  plugin system.
---

# Plugin Management

External plugins are the components in OpenBao that can be implemented separately
from OpenBao's built-in plugins. These plugins can be either authentication or
secrets engines.

The [`api_addr`][api_addr] must be set in order for the plugin process to
establish communication with the OpenBao server during mount time. If the storage
backend has HA enabled and supports automatic host address detection, OpenBao
will automatically attempt to determine the `api_addr` as well.

Detailed information regarding the plugin system can be found in the
[internals documentation](index.mdx).

## Registering external plugins

Before an external plugin can be mounted, it needs to be
[registered](plugin-architecture.mdx#plugin-registration) in the
plugin catalog to ensure the plugin invoked by OpenBao is authentic and maintains
integrity:

```shell-session
$ bao plugin register -sha256=<SHA256 Hex value of the plugin binary> \
    secret \                  # type
    passthrough-plugin

Success! Registered plugin: passthrough-plugin
```

## Enabling/Disabling external plugins

After the plugin is registered, it can be mounted by specifying the registered
plugin name:

```shell-session
$ bao secrets enable -path=my-secrets passthrough-plugin
Success! Enabled the passthrough-plugin secrets engine at: my-secrets/
```

Listing secrets engines will display secrets engines that are mounted as
plugins:

```shell-session
$ bao secrets list
Path         Type       Accessor            Plugin              Default TTL  Max TTL  Force No Cache  Replication Behavior  Description
my-secrets/  plugin     plugin_deb84140     passthrough-plugin  system       system   false           replicated
```

Disabling an external plugins is identical to disabling a built-in plugin:

```shell-session
$ bao secrets disable my-secrets
```

## Upgrading plugins

Upgrade instructions can be found in the [Upgrading Plugins - Guides][upgrading_plugins]
page.

[api_addr]: ../configuration/index.mdx#api_addr
[upgrading_plugins]: ../upgrading/plugins.mdx

Commit message:

add plugin distribution via OCI images
Add a new plugin distribution system enabling declarative plugin
management in OpenBao server configuration files. This feature allows
automatic downloading, caching and validation of plugins ditributed as
OCI images.

Signed-off-by: Jan Martens <jan@martens.eu.org>

website/content/docs/plugins/plugin-management.mdx, after:

---
description: >-
  External Plugins are mountable backends that are implemented using OpenBao's
  plugin system.
---

# Plugin Management

External plugins are the components in OpenBao that can be implemented separately
from OpenBao's built-in plugins. These plugins can be either authentication or
secrets engines.

The [`api_addr`][api_addr] must be set in order for the plugin process to
establish communication with the OpenBao server during mount time. If the storage
backend has HA enabled and supports automatic host address detection, OpenBao
will automatically attempt to determine the `api_addr` as well.

Detailed information regarding the plugin system can be found in the
[internals documentation](index.mdx).

## Plugin distribution methods

OpenBao supports two methods for distributing external plugins:

1. **Manual management** - Manual download of plugin binaries and registration via CLI/API
2. **OCI-based distribution** - Automatic download from container registries with declarative configuration and registation via CLI/API

See the [OCI Plugin](/docs/configuration/oci-plugins) configuration reference
for complete documentation.

## Registering external plugins

Before an external plugin can be mounted, it needs to be
[registered](plugin-architecture.mdx#plugin-registration) in the
plugin catalog to ensure the plugin invoked by OpenBao is authentic and maintains
integrity:

```shell-session
$ bao plugin register -sha256=<SHA256 Hex value of the plugin binary> \
    secret \                  # type
    passthrough-plugin

Success! Registered plugin: passthrough-plugin
```

## Enabling/Disabling external plugins

After the plugin is registered, it can be mounted by specifying the registered
plugin name:

```shell-session
$ bao secrets enable -path=my-secrets passthrough-plugin
Success! Enabled the passthrough-plugin secrets engine at: my-secrets/
```

Listing secrets engines will display secrets engines that are mounted as
plugins:

```shell-session
$ bao secrets list
Path         Type       Accessor            Plugin              Default TTL  Max TTL  Force No Cache  Replication Behavior  Description
my-secrets/  plugin     plugin_deb84140     passthrough-plugin  system       system   false           replicated
```

Disabling an external plugins is identical to disabling a built-in plugin:

```shell-session
$ bao secrets disable my-secrets
```

## Upgrading plugins

Upgrade instructions can be found in the [Upgrading Plugins - Guides][upgrading_plugins]
page.

[api_addr]: ../configuration/index.mdx#api_addr
[upgrading_plugins]: ../upgrading/plugins.mdx
