website/content/docs/commands/operator/diagnose.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: diagnose
description: |-
  "bao operator diagnose" is a new operator-centric command, focused on providing a clear description 
  of what is working in OpenBao, and what is not working. The command focuses on why OpenBao cannot serve requests,
  but will also warn on configurations or statuses that it deems to be unsafe in some way. 

---

# operator diagnose

The operator diagnose command should be used primarily when OpenBao is down or 
partially inoperational. The command can be used safely regardless of the state 
OpenBao is in, but may return meaningless results for some of the test cases if the 
OpenBao server is already running. 

Note: if you run the diagnose command proactively, either before a server 
starts or while a server is operational, please consult the documentation 
on the individual checks below to see which checks are returning false error 
messages or warnings.

## Usage

The following flags are available in addition to the [standard set of
flags](../index.mdx) included on all commands.

### Output options

- `-format` `(string: "table")` - Print the output in the given format. Valid
  formats are "table" or "json". This can also be specified via the `BAO_FORMAT`
  environment variable.

#### Output layout

The operator diagnose command will output a set of lines in the CLI. 
Each line will begin with a prefix in parenthesis. These are:. 

- `[ success ]` - Denotes that the check was successful.
- `[ warning ]` - Denotes that the check has passed, but that there may be potential
issues to look into that may relate to the issues OpenBao is experiencing. Diagnose warns 
frequently. These warnings are meant to serve as starting points in the debugging process. 
- `[ failure ]` - Denotes that the check has failed. Failures are critical issues in the eyes 
of the diagnose command.

In addition to these prefixed lines, there may be output lines that are not prefixed, but are 
color-coded purple. These are advice lines from Diagnose, and are meant to offer general guidance 
on how to go about fixing potential warnings or failures that may arise.

Warn or fail prefixes in nested checks will bubble up to the parent if the prefix superceeds the 
parent prefix. Fail superceeds warn, and warn superceeds ok. For example, if the TLS checks under
the Storage check fails, the `[ failure ]` prefix will bubble up to the Storage check. 

### Command options

- `-config` `(string; "")` - The path to the OpenBao configuration file used by 
the OpenBao server on startup. 

### Diagnose checks

The following section details the various checks that Diagnose runs. Check names in documentation
will be separated by slashes to denote that they are nested, when applicable. For example, a check 
documented as `A / B` will show up as `B` in the `operator diagnose` output, and will be nested
(indented) under `A`. 

#### OpenBao diagnose

`OpenBao Diagnose` is the top level check that contains the rest of the checks. It will report the status
of the check 

#### Check operating system / check open file limit

`Check Open File Limit` verifies that the open file limit value is set high enough for OpenBao 
to run effectively. We recommend setting these limits to at least 1024768. 

This check will be skipped on openbsd, arm, and windows. 

#### Check operating system / check disk usage

`Check Disk Usage` will report disk usage for each partition. For each partition on a prod host,
we recommend having at least 5% of the partition free to use, and at least 1 GB of space. 

This check will be skipped on openbsd and arm.

#### Parse configuration

`Parse Configuration` will check the OpenBao server config file for syntax errors. It will check
for extra values in the configuration file, repeated stanzas, and stanzas that do not belong 
in the configuration file (for example a "tcpp" listener as opposed to a tcp listener). 

Currently, the `storage` stanza is not checked. 

#### Check storage / create storage backend

`Create Storage Backend` ensures that the storage stanza configured in the OpenBao server config
has enough information to create a storage object internally. Common errors will have to do
with misconfigured fields in the storage stanza. 

#### Check storage / check raft folder permissions

`Check Raft Folder Permissions` computes the permissions on the raft folder, checks that a boltDB file 
has been initialized within the folder previously, and ensures that the folder is not too permissive, but 
at the same time has enough permissions to be used. The raft folder should not have `other` permissions, but 
should have `group rw` or `owner rw`, depending on different setups. This check also warns if it detects a
symlink being used. 

Note that this check will warn that a raft file has not been created if diagnose is run without any
pre-existing server runs.

This check will be skipped on windows. 

#### Check storage / check raft folder ownership

`Check Raft Folder Ownership` ensures that OpenBao does not need to run as root to access the boltDB folder. 

Note that this check will warn that a raft file has not been created if diagnose is run without any
pre-existing server runs. 

This check will be skipped on windows. 

#### Check storage / check for raft quorum

`Check For Raft Quorum` uses the FSM to ensure that there were an odd number of voters in the raft quorum when 
OpenBao was last running. 

Note that this check will warn that there are 0 voters if diagnose is run without any pre-existing server runs. 

#### Check storage / check storage access

`Check Storage Access` will try to write a dud value, named `diagnose/latency/<uuid>`, to storage. 
Ensure that there is no important data at this location before running diagnose, as this check 
will overwrite that data. This check will then try to list and read the value it wrote to ensure 
the name and value is as expected. 

`Check Storage Access` will warn if any operation takes longer than 100ms, and error out if the 
entire check takes longer than 30s. 

#### Check service discovery / check consul service discovery TLS

`Check Consul Service Discovery TLS` verifies TLS information included in the service discovery
 stanza if the storage type is consul. If a certificate chain is provided, Diagnose parses 
 the root, intermediate, and leaf certificates, and checks each one for correctness. 

#### Check service discovery / check consul direct service discovery

`Check Consul Direct Service Discovery` is a consul-specific check that ensures OpenBao
is not accessing the consul server directly, but rather through a local agent. 

#### Create OpenBao server configuration seals

`Create OpenBao Server Configuration Seals` creates seals from the OpenBao configuration 
stanza and verifies they can be initialized and finalized. 

#### Check transit seal TLS

`Check Transit Seal TLS` checks the TLS client certificate, key, and CA certificate
provided in a transit seal stanza (if one exists) for correctness. 

#### Create core configuration / initialize randomness for core

`Initialize Randomness for Core` ensures that OpenBao has access to the randReader that 
the OpenBao core uses. 

#### HA storage

This check and any nested checks will be the same as the `Check Storage` checks.
The only difference is that the checks here will be run on whatever is specified in the 
`ha_storage` section of the OpenBao configuration, as opposed to the `storage` section. 

#### Determine redirect address

Ensures that one of the `VAULT_API_ADDR`, `VAULT_REDIRECT_ADDR`, or `VAULT_ADVERTISE_ADDR` 
environment variables are set, or that the redirect address is specified in the OpenBao 
configuration.

#### Check cluster address

Parses the cluster address from the `VAULT_CLUSTER_ADDR` environment variable, or from the 
redirect address or cluster address specified in the OpenBao configuration, and checks that 
the address is of the form `host:port`. 

#### Check core creation

`Check Core Creation` verifies the logical configuration checks that OpenBao does when it 
creates a core object. These are runtime checks, meaning any errors thrown by this diagnose
test will also be thrown by the OpenBao server itself when it is run. 

#### Start listeners / check listener TLS

`Check Listener TLS` verifies the server certificate file and key are valid and matching. 
It also checks the client CA file, if one is provided, for a valid certificate, and performs
the standard runtime listener checks on the listener configuration stanza, such as verifying 
that the minimum and maximum TLS versions are within the bounds of what OpenBao supports. 

Like all the other Diagnose TLS checks, it will warn if any of the certificates provided are 
set to expire within the next month. 

#### Start listeners / create listeners

`Create Listeners` uses the listener configuration to initialize the listeners, erroring with 
a server error if anything goes wrong. 

#### Check autounseal encryption

`Check Autounseal Encryption` will initialize the barrier using the seal stanza, if the seal
type is not a shamir seal, and use it to encrypt and decrypt a dud value. 

#### Check server before runtime

`Check Server Before Runtime` achieves parity with the server run command, running through 
the runtime code checks before the server is initialized to ensure that nothing fails. 
This check will never fail without another diagnose check failing.

Commit message:

Added documentation about BAO_CONFIG_PATH
Signed-off-by: Norman Abramovitz <nabramovitz@fivetwenty.io>

website/content/docs/commands/operator/diagnose.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: diagnose
description: |-
  "bao operator diagnose" is a new operator-centric command, focused on providing a clear description 
  of what is working in OpenBao, and what is not working. The command focuses on why OpenBao cannot serve requests,
  but will also warn on configurations or statuses that it deems to be unsafe in some way. 

---

# operator diagnose

The operator diagnose command should be used primarily when OpenBao is down or 
partially inoperational. The command can be used safely regardless of the state 
OpenBao is in, but may return meaningless results for some of the test cases if the 
OpenBao server is already running. 

Note: if you run the diagnose command proactively, either before a server 
starts or while a server is operational, please consult the documentation 
on the individual checks below to see which checks are returning false error 
messages or warnings.

## Usage

The following flags are available in addition to the [standard set of
flags](../index.mdx) included on all commands.

### Output options

- `-format` `(string: "table")` - Print the output in the given format. Valid
  formats are "table" or "json". This can also be specified via the `BAO_FORMAT`
  environment variable.

#### Output layout

The operator diagnose command will output a set of lines in the CLI. 
Each line will begin with a prefix in parenthesis. These are:. 

- `[ success ]` - Denotes that the check was successful.
- `[ warning ]` - Denotes that the check has passed, but that there may be potential
issues to look into that may relate to the issues OpenBao is experiencing. Diagnose warns 
frequently. These warnings are meant to serve as starting points in the debugging process. 
- `[ failure ]` - Denotes that the check has failed. Failures are critical issues in the eyes 
of the diagnose command.

In addition to these prefixed lines, there may be output lines that are not prefixed, but are 
color-coded purple. These are advice lines from Diagnose, and are meant to offer general guidance 
on how to go about fixing potential warnings or failures that may arise.

Warn or fail prefixes in nested checks will bubble up to the parent if the prefix superceeds the 
parent prefix. Fail superceeds warn, and warn superceeds ok. For example, if the TLS checks under
the Storage check fails, the `[ failure ]` prefix will bubble up to the Storage check. 

### Command options

- `-config` `(string; "")` - The paths to the OpenBao configuration files used by 
the OpenBao server on startup. See the [server `-config` option](../../server#command-options) for more details.

### Diagnose checks

The following section details the various checks that Diagnose runs. Check names in documentation
will be separated by slashes to denote that they are nested, when applicable. For example, a check 
documented as `A / B` will show up as `B` in the `operator diagnose` output, and will be nested
(indented) under `A`. 

#### OpenBao diagnose

`OpenBao Diagnose` is the top level check that contains the rest of the checks. It will report the status
of the check 

#### Check operating system / check open file limit

`Check Open File Limit` verifies that the open file limit value is set high enough for OpenBao 
to run effectively. We recommend setting these limits to at least 1024768. 

This check will be skipped on openbsd, arm, and windows. 

#### Check operating system / check disk usage

`Check Disk Usage` will report disk usage for each partition. For each partition on a prod host,
we recommend having at least 5% of the partition free to use, and at least 1 GB of space. 

This check will be skipped on openbsd and arm.

#### Parse configuration

`Parse Configuration` will check the OpenBao server config file for syntax errors. It will check
for extra values in the configuration file, repeated stanzas, and stanzas that do not belong 
in the configuration file (for example a "tcpp" listener as opposed to a tcp listener). 

Currently, the `storage` stanza is not checked. 

#### Check storage / create storage backend

`Create Storage Backend` ensures that the storage stanza configured in the OpenBao server config
has enough information to create a storage object internally. Common errors will have to do
with misconfigured fields in the storage stanza. 

#### Check storage / check raft folder permissions

`Check Raft Folder Permissions` computes the permissions on the raft folder, checks that a boltDB file 
has been initialized within the folder previously, and ensures that the folder is not too permissive, but 
at the same time has enough permissions to be used. The raft folder should not have `other` permissions, but 
should have `group rw` or `owner rw`, depending on different setups. This check also warns if it detects a
symlink being used. 

Note that this check will warn that a raft file has not been created if diagnose is run without any
pre-existing server runs.

This check will be skipped on windows. 

#### Check storage / check raft folder ownership

`Check Raft Folder Ownership` ensures that OpenBao does not need to run as root to access the boltDB folder. 

Note that this check will warn that a raft file has not been created if diagnose is run without any
pre-existing server runs. 

This check will be skipped on windows. 

#### Check storage / check for raft quorum

`Check For Raft Quorum` uses the FSM to ensure that there were an odd number of voters in the raft quorum when 
OpenBao was last running. 

Note that this check will warn that there are 0 voters if diagnose is run without any pre-existing server runs. 

#### Check storage / check storage access

`Check Storage Access` will try to write a dud value, named `diagnose/latency/<uuid>`, to storage. 
Ensure that there is no important data at this location before running diagnose, as this check 
will overwrite that data. This check will then try to list and read the value it wrote to ensure 
the name and value is as expected. 

`Check Storage Access` will warn if any operation takes longer than 100ms, and error out if the 
entire check takes longer than 30s. 

#### Check service discovery / check consul service discovery TLS

`Check Consul Service Discovery TLS` verifies TLS information included in the service discovery
 stanza if the storage type is consul. If a certificate chain is provided, Diagnose parses 
 the root, intermediate, and leaf certificates, and checks each one for correctness. 

#### Check service discovery / check consul direct service discovery

`Check Consul Direct Service Discovery` is a consul-specific check that ensures OpenBao
is not accessing the consul server directly, but rather through a local agent. 

#### Create OpenBao server configuration seals

`Create OpenBao Server Configuration Seals` creates seals from the OpenBao configuration 
stanza and verifies they can be initialized and finalized. 

#### Check transit seal TLS

`Check Transit Seal TLS` checks the TLS client certificate, key, and CA certificate
provided in a transit seal stanza (if one exists) for correctness. 

#### Create core configuration / initialize randomness for core

`Initialize Randomness for Core` ensures that OpenBao has access to the randReader that 
the OpenBao core uses. 

#### HA storage

This check and any nested checks will be the same as the `Check Storage` checks.
The only difference is that the checks here will be run on whatever is specified in the 
`ha_storage` section of the OpenBao configuration, as opposed to the `storage` section. 

#### Determine redirect address

Ensures that one of the `VAULT_API_ADDR`, `VAULT_REDIRECT_ADDR`, or `VAULT_ADVERTISE_ADDR` 
environment variables are set, or that the redirect address is specified in the OpenBao 
configuration.

#### Check cluster address

Parses the cluster address from the `VAULT_CLUSTER_ADDR` environment variable, or from the 
redirect address or cluster address specified in the OpenBao configuration, and checks that 
the address is of the form `host:port`. 

#### Check core creation

`Check Core Creation` verifies the logical configuration checks that OpenBao does when it 
creates a core object. These are runtime checks, meaning any errors thrown by this diagnose
test will also be thrown by the OpenBao server itself when it is run. 

#### Start listeners / check listener TLS

`Check Listener TLS` verifies the server certificate file and key are valid and matching. 
It also checks the client CA file, if one is provided, for a valid certificate, and performs
the standard runtime listener checks on the listener configuration stanza, such as verifying 
that the minimum and maximum TLS versions are within the bounds of what OpenBao supports. 

Like all the other Diagnose TLS checks, it will warn if any of the certificates provided are 
set to expire within the next month. 

#### Start listeners / create listeners

`Create Listeners` uses the listener configuration to initialize the listeners, erroring with 
a server error if anything goes wrong. 

#### Check autounseal encryption

`Check Autounseal Encryption` will initialize the barrier using the seal stanza, if the seal
type is not a shamir seal, and use it to encrypt and decrypt a dud value. 

#### Check server before runtime

`Check Server Before Runtime` achieves parity with the server run command, running through 
the runtime code checks before the server is initialized to ensure that nothing fails. 
This check will never fail without another diagnose check failing.
