website/content/docs/commands/operator/raft.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: raft
description: >-
  The "operator raft" command is used to interact with the integrated Raft storage backend.
---

# operator raft

This command groups subcommands for operators to manage the Integrated Storage Raft backend.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft <subcommand> [options] [args]

 This command groups subcommands for operators interacting with the OpenBao
 integrated Raft storage backend. Most users will not need to interact with these
 commands. Here are a few examples of the Raft operator commands:

Subcommands:
    join           Joins a node to the Raft cluster
    list-peers     Returns the Raft peer set
    remove-peer    Removes a node from the Raft cluster
    snapshot       Restores and saves snapshots from the Raft cluster
```

## join

This command is used to join a new node as a peer to the Raft cluster. In order
to join, there must be at least one existing member of the cluster. If Shamir
seal is in use, then unseal keys are to be supplied before or after the
join process, depending on whether it's being used exclusively for HA.

If raft is used for `storage`, the node must be joined before unsealing and the
`leader-api-addr` argument must be provided. If raft is used for `ha_storage`,
the node must be first unsealed before joining and the `leader-api-addr` must
_not_ be provided.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft join [options] <leader-api-addr>

  Join the current node as a peer to the Raft cluster by providing the address
  of the Raft leader node.

	  $ bao operator raft join "http://127.0.0.2:8200"
```

The `join` command also allows operators to specify cloud auto-join configuration
instead of a static IP address or hostname. When provided, OpenBao will attempt to
automatically discover and resolve potential leader addresses based on the provided
auto-join configuration.

OpenBao uses go-discover to support the auto-join functionality. Please see the
go-discover
[README](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-discover/blob/master/README.md) for
details on the format.

By default, OpenBao will attempt to reach discovered peers using HTTPS and port 8200.
Operators may override these through the `--auto-join-scheme` and `--auto-join-port`
CLI flags respectively.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft join [options] <auto-join-configuration>
  Join the current node as a peer to the Raft cluster by providing cloud auto-join
  metadata configuration.
    $ bao operator raft join "provider=aws region=eu-west-1 ..."
```

### Parameters

The following flags are available for the `operator raft join` command.

- `-leader-ca-cert` `(string: "")` - CA cert to communicate with Raft leader.

- `-leader-client-cert` `(string: "")` - Client cert to authenticate to Raft leader.

- `-leader-client-key` `(string: "")` - Client key to authenticate to Raft leader.

- `-non-voter` `(bool: false)` - This flag is used to make the
  server not participate in the Raft quorum, and have it only receive the data
  replication stream. This can be used to add read scalability to a cluster in
  cases where a high volume of reads to servers are needed. The default is false.
  See [`retry_join_as_non_voter`](/docs/configuration/storage/raft#retry_join_as_non_voter)
  for the equivalent config option when using `retry_join` stanzas instead.

:::warning

Adding a large number of non-voters to a cluster will impact application
latency. Make sure to tune the [Raft settings](/docs/configuration/storage/raft/#raft-parameters)
for your intended use case.

:::

- `-retry` `(bool: false)` - Continuously retry joining the Raft cluster upon
  failures. The default is false.

:::note

Please be aware that the content (not the path to the file) of the certificate or key is expected for these parameters: `-leader-ca-cert`, `-leader-client-cert`, `-leader-client-key`.

:::

## list-peers

This command is used to list the full set of peers in the Raft cluster.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft list-peers

  Provides the details of all the peers in the Raft cluster.

	  $ bao operator raft list-peers
```

### Example output

```json
{
 ...
  "data": {
    "config": {
      "index": 62,
      "servers": [
        {
          "address": "127.0.0.2:8201",
          "leader": true,
          "node_id": "node1",
          "protocol_version": "3",
          "voter": true
        },
        {
          "address": "127.0.0.4:8201",
          "leader": false,
          "node_id": "node3",
          "protocol_version": "3",
          "voter": true
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## remove-peer

This command is used to remove a node from being a peer to the Raft cluster. In
certain cases where a peer may be left behind in the Raft configuration even
though the server is no longer present and known to the cluster, this command
can be used to remove the failed server so that it is no longer affects the Raft
quorum.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft remove-peer <server_id>

  Removes a node from the Raft cluster.

	  $ bao operator raft remove-peer node1
```

:::note
  Once a node is removed, its Raft data needs to be deleted before it may be joined back into an existing cluster. This requires shutting down the OpenBao process, deleting the data, then restarting the OpenBao process on the removed node.
:::

## snapshot

This command groups subcommands for operators interacting with the snapshot
functionality of the integrated Raft storage backend. There are 2 subcommands
supported: `save` and `restore`.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft snapshot <subcommand> [options] [args]

  This command groups subcommands for operators interacting with the snapshot
  functionality of the integrated Raft storage backend.

Subcommands:
    restore    Installs the provided snapshot, returning the cluster to the state defined in it
    save       Saves a snapshot of the current state of the Raft cluster into a file
```

### snapshot save

Takes a snapshot of the OpenBao data. The snapshot can be used to restore OpenBao to
the point in time when a snapshot was taken.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft snapshot save <snapshot_file>

  Saves a snapshot of the current state of the Raft cluster into a file.

	  $ bao operator raft snapshot save raft.snap
```

:::note

Snapshot is not supported when Raft is used only for `ha_storage`.

:::

### snapshot restore

Restores a snapshot of OpenBao data taken with `bao operator raft snapshot save`.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft snapshot restore <snapshot_file>

  Installs the provided snapshot, returning the cluster to the state defined in it.

	  $ bao operator raft snapshot restore raft.snap
```

## autopilot

This command groups subcommands for operators interacting with the autopilot
functionality of the integrated Raft storage backend. There are 3 subcommands
supported: `get-config`, `set-config` and `state`.

For a more detailed overview of autopilot features, see the [concepts page](/docs/concepts/integrated-storage/autopilot).

```text
Usage: bao operator raft autopilot <subcommand> [options] [args]

This command groups subcommands for operators interacting with the autopilot
functionality of the integrated Raft storage backend.

Subcommands:
    get-config    Returns the configuration of the autopilot subsystem under Integrated Storage
    set-config    Modify the configuration of the autopilot subsystem under Integrated Storage
    state         Displays the state of the raft cluster under Integrated Storage as seen by autopilot
```

### autopilot state

Displays the state of the raft cluster under Integrated Storage as seen by
autopilot. It shows whether autopilot thinks the cluster is healthy or not,
and how many nodes could fail before the cluster becomes unhealthy ("Failure Tolerance").

State includes a list of all servers by nodeID and IP address. Last Index
indicates how close the state on each node is to the leader's.

A node can have a status of "leader", "voter" or "non-voter".

```text
Usage: bao operator raft autopilot state

  Displays the state of the raft cluster under Integrated Storage as seen by autopilot.

    $ bao operator raft autopilot state
```

#### Example output

```text
Healthy:                      true
Failure Tolerance:            1
Leader:                       raft1
Voters:
   raft1
   raft2
   raft3
Non Voters:
   raft4
Servers:
   raft1
      Name:            raft1
      Address:         127.0.0.1:8201
      Status:          leader
      Node Status:     alive
      Healthy:         true
      Last Contact:    0s
      Last Term:       3
      Last Index:      38
   raft2
      Name:            raft2
      Address:         127.0.0.2:8201
      Status:          voter
      Node Status:     alive
      Healthy:         true
      Last Contact:    2.514176729s
      Last Term:       3
      Last Index:      38
```

### autopilot get-config

Returns the configuration of the autopilot subsystem under Integrated Storage.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft autopilot get-config

  Returns the configuration of the autopilot subsystem under Integrated Storage.

    $ bao operator raft autopilot get-config
```

### autopilot set-config

Modify the configuration of the autopilot subsystem under Integrated Storage.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft autopilot set-config [options]

  Modify the configuration of the autopilot subsystem under Integrated Storage.

	  $ bao operator raft autopilot set-config -server-stabilization-time 10s

```

Flags applicable to this command are the following:

- `cleanup-dead-servers` `(bool)` - Controls whether to remove dead servers from
  the Raft peer list periodically or when a new server joins. This requires that
  `min-quorum` is also set. Defaults to `false`.

- `last-contact-threshold` `(string)` - Limit on the amount of time a server can
  go without leader contact before being considered unhealthy. Defaults to `10s`.

- `dead-server-last-contact-threshold` `(string)` - Limit on the amount of time
  a server can go without leader contact before being considered failed.
  This takes effect only when `cleanup_dead_servers` is set as `true`. Defaults to `24h`.
  
:::note

A failed server that autopilot has removed from the raft configuration cannot rejoin the cluster without being reinitialized.  

:::

- `max-trailing-logs` `(int)` - Amount of entries in the Raft Log that a server
  can be behind before being considered unhealthy. Defaults to `1000`.

- `min-quorum` `(int)` - Minimum number of servers that should always be present in a cluster.
  Autopilot will not prune servers below this number. This should be set to the expected number
  of voters in your cluster. There is no default.

- `server-stabilization-time` `(string)` - Minimum amount of time a server must be in a healthy state before it
  can become a voter. Until that happens, it will be visible as a peer in the cluster, but as a non-voter, meaning it
  won't contribute to quorum. Defaults to `10s`.

Commit message:

Add API and CLI commands to promote/demote nodes in the Raft cluster (#996) (#1072)
* add commands to promote and demote raft peers

Building on top of the new non-voter feature, this allows controlling
the voting status of individual nodes using the CLI.



* document new commands and api endpoints



* remove DR Token options

This is not supported by OpenBao and probably never will be.



* add fallback if autopilot is disabled

Use the raw Raft backend functions to promote or demote a node.



---------

Signed-off-by: Jan Martens <jan@martens.eu.org>

website/content/docs/commands/operator/raft.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: raft
description: >-
  The "operator raft" command is used to interact with the integrated Raft storage backend.
---

# operator raft

This command groups subcommands for operators to manage the Integrated Storage Raft backend.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft <subcommand> [options] [args]

 This command groups subcommands for operators interacting with the OpenBao
 integrated Raft storage backend. Most users will not need to interact with these
 commands. Here are a few examples of the Raft operator commands:

Subcommands:
    join           Joins a node to the Raft cluster
    list-peers     Returns the Raft peer set
    remove-peer    Removes a node from the Raft cluster
    snapshot       Restores and saves snapshots from the Raft cluster
```

## join

This command is used to join a new node as a peer to the Raft cluster. In order
to join, there must be at least one existing member of the cluster. If Shamir
seal is in use, then unseal keys are to be supplied before or after the
join process, depending on whether it's being used exclusively for HA.

If raft is used for `storage`, the node must be joined before unsealing and the
`leader-api-addr` argument must be provided. If raft is used for `ha_storage`,
the node must be first unsealed before joining and the `leader-api-addr` must
_not_ be provided.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft join [options] <leader-api-addr>

  Join the current node as a peer to the Raft cluster by providing the address
  of the Raft leader node.

	  $ bao operator raft join "http://127.0.0.2:8200"
```

The `join` command also allows operators to specify cloud auto-join configuration
instead of a static IP address or hostname. When provided, OpenBao will attempt to
automatically discover and resolve potential leader addresses based on the provided
auto-join configuration.

OpenBao uses go-discover to support the auto-join functionality. Please see the
go-discover
[README](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-discover/blob/master/README.md) for
details on the format.

By default, OpenBao will attempt to reach discovered peers using HTTPS and port 8200.
Operators may override these through the `--auto-join-scheme` and `--auto-join-port`
CLI flags respectively.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft join [options] <auto-join-configuration>
  Join the current node as a peer to the Raft cluster by providing cloud auto-join
  metadata configuration.
    $ bao operator raft join "provider=aws region=eu-west-1 ..."
```

### Parameters

The following flags are available for the `operator raft join` command.

- `-leader-ca-cert` `(string: "")` - CA cert to communicate with Raft leader.

- `-leader-client-cert` `(string: "")` - Client cert to authenticate to Raft leader.

- `-leader-client-key` `(string: "")` - Client key to authenticate to Raft leader.

- `-non-voter` `(bool: false)` - This flag is used to make the
  server not participate in the Raft quorum, and have it only receive the data
  replication stream. This can be used to add read scalability to a cluster in
  cases where a high volume of reads to servers are needed. The default is false.
  See [`retry_join_as_non_voter`](/docs/configuration/storage/raft#retry_join_as_non_voter)
  for the equivalent config option when using `retry_join` stanzas instead.

:::warning

Adding a large number of non-voters to a cluster will impact application
latency. Make sure to tune the [Raft settings](/docs/configuration/storage/raft/#raft-parameters)
for your intended use case.

:::

- `-retry` `(bool: false)` - Continuously retry joining the Raft cluster upon
  failures. The default is false.

:::note

Please be aware that the content (not the path to the file) of the certificate or key is expected for these parameters: `-leader-ca-cert`, `-leader-client-cert`, `-leader-client-key`.

:::

## list-peers

This command is used to list the full set of peers in the Raft cluster.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft list-peers

  Provides the details of all the peers in the Raft cluster.

	  $ bao operator raft list-peers
```

### Example output

```json
{
 ...
  "data": {
    "config": {
      "index": 62,
      "servers": [
        {
          "address": "127.0.0.2:8201",
          "leader": true,
          "node_id": "node1",
          "protocol_version": "3",
          "voter": true
        },
        {
          "address": "127.0.0.4:8201",
          "leader": false,
          "node_id": "node3",
          "protocol_version": "3",
          "voter": true
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## remove-peer

This command is used to remove a node from being a peer to the Raft cluster. In
certain cases where a peer may be left behind in the Raft configuration even
though the server is no longer present and known to the cluster, this command
can be used to remove the failed server so that it is no longer affects the Raft
quorum.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft remove-peer <server_id>

  Removes a node from the Raft cluster.

	  $ bao operator raft remove-peer node1
```

:::note
  Once a node is removed, its Raft data needs to be deleted before it may be joined back into an existing cluster. This requires shutting down the OpenBao process, deleting the data, then restarting the OpenBao process on the removed node.
:::

## promote

This command is used to promote a permanent [non-voter](#parameters) to a voter in the Raft cluster.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft promote <server_id>

  Promotes a permanent non-voter to a voter.

	  $ bao operator raft promote node1
```

## demote

This command is used to demote a voter to a permanent [non-voter](#parameters) in the Raft cluster.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft demote <server_id>

  Demotes voter to a permanent non-voter.

	  $ bao operator raft demote node1
```


:::note
  Demoting the current leader to a non-voter will not trigger a leader election. The node will become a non-voter after the leadership has changed.
:::
## snapshot

This command groups subcommands for operators interacting with the snapshot
functionality of the integrated Raft storage backend. There are 2 subcommands
supported: `save` and `restore`.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft snapshot <subcommand> [options] [args]

  This command groups subcommands for operators interacting with the snapshot
  functionality of the integrated Raft storage backend.

Subcommands:
    restore    Installs the provided snapshot, returning the cluster to the state defined in it
    save       Saves a snapshot of the current state of the Raft cluster into a file
```

### snapshot save

Takes a snapshot of the OpenBao data. The snapshot can be used to restore OpenBao to
the point in time when a snapshot was taken.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft snapshot save <snapshot_file>

  Saves a snapshot of the current state of the Raft cluster into a file.

	  $ bao operator raft snapshot save raft.snap
```

:::note

Snapshot is not supported when Raft is used only for `ha_storage`.

:::

### snapshot restore

Restores a snapshot of OpenBao data taken with `bao operator raft snapshot save`.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft snapshot restore <snapshot_file>

  Installs the provided snapshot, returning the cluster to the state defined in it.

	  $ bao operator raft snapshot restore raft.snap
```

## autopilot

This command groups subcommands for operators interacting with the autopilot
functionality of the integrated Raft storage backend. There are 3 subcommands
supported: `get-config`, `set-config` and `state`.

For a more detailed overview of autopilot features, see the [concepts page](/docs/concepts/integrated-storage/autopilot).

```text
Usage: bao operator raft autopilot <subcommand> [options] [args]

This command groups subcommands for operators interacting with the autopilot
functionality of the integrated Raft storage backend.

Subcommands:
    get-config    Returns the configuration of the autopilot subsystem under Integrated Storage
    set-config    Modify the configuration of the autopilot subsystem under Integrated Storage
    state         Displays the state of the raft cluster under Integrated Storage as seen by autopilot
```

### autopilot state

Displays the state of the raft cluster under Integrated Storage as seen by
autopilot. It shows whether autopilot thinks the cluster is healthy or not,
and how many nodes could fail before the cluster becomes unhealthy ("Failure Tolerance").

State includes a list of all servers by nodeID and IP address. Last Index
indicates how close the state on each node is to the leader's.

A node can have a status of "leader", "voter" or "non-voter".

```text
Usage: bao operator raft autopilot state

  Displays the state of the raft cluster under Integrated Storage as seen by autopilot.

    $ bao operator raft autopilot state
```

#### Example output

```text
Healthy:                      true
Failure Tolerance:            1
Leader:                       raft1
Voters:
   raft1
   raft2
   raft3
Non Voters:
   raft4
Servers:
   raft1
      Name:            raft1
      Address:         127.0.0.1:8201
      Status:          leader
      Node Status:     alive
      Healthy:         true
      Last Contact:    0s
      Last Term:       3
      Last Index:      38
   raft2
      Name:            raft2
      Address:         127.0.0.2:8201
      Status:          voter
      Node Status:     alive
      Healthy:         true
      Last Contact:    2.514176729s
      Last Term:       3
      Last Index:      38
```

### autopilot get-config

Returns the configuration of the autopilot subsystem under Integrated Storage.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft autopilot get-config

  Returns the configuration of the autopilot subsystem under Integrated Storage.

    $ bao operator raft autopilot get-config
```

### autopilot set-config

Modify the configuration of the autopilot subsystem under Integrated Storage.

```text
Usage: bao operator raft autopilot set-config [options]

  Modify the configuration of the autopilot subsystem under Integrated Storage.

	  $ bao operator raft autopilot set-config -server-stabilization-time 10s

```

Flags applicable to this command are the following:

- `cleanup-dead-servers` `(bool)` - Controls whether to remove dead servers from
  the Raft peer list periodically or when a new server joins. This requires that
  `min-quorum` is also set. Defaults to `false`.

- `last-contact-threshold` `(string)` - Limit on the amount of time a server can
  go without leader contact before being considered unhealthy. Defaults to `10s`.

- `dead-server-last-contact-threshold` `(string)` - Limit on the amount of time
  a server can go without leader contact before being considered failed.
  This takes effect only when `cleanup_dead_servers` is set as `true`. Defaults to `24h`.
  
:::note

A failed server that autopilot has removed from the raft configuration cannot rejoin the cluster without being reinitialized.  

:::

- `max-trailing-logs` `(int)` - Amount of entries in the Raft Log that a server
  can be behind before being considered unhealthy. Defaults to `1000`.

- `min-quorum` `(int)` - Minimum number of servers that should always be present in a cluster.
  Autopilot will not prune servers below this number. This should be set to the expected number
  of voters in your cluster. There is no default.

- `server-stabilization-time` `(string)` - Minimum amount of time a server must be in a healthy state before it
  can become a voter. Until that happens, it will be visible as a peer in the cluster, but as a non-voter, meaning it
  won't contribute to quorum. Defaults to `10s`.
