website/content/docs/commands/operator/rotate-keys.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: rotate-keys
description: |-
  The "operator rotate-keys" command generates a new set of unseal keys. 
  This can optionally change the total number of key shares or the required 
  threshold to reconstruct the root key. The rotation does not introduce
  downtime, but it requires the OpenBao instance to be unsealed and a quorum
  of existing unseal keys to be provided.
---

# operator rotate-keys

The `operator rotate-keys` command generates a new set of unseal keys. 
This can optionally change the total number of key shares or the required 
threshold to reconstruct the root key. The rotation does not introduce
downtime, but it requires the OpenBao instance to be unsealed and a quorum
of existing unseal keys to be provided.

An unseal key may be provided directly on the command line as an argument to the
command. If key is specified as "-", the command will read from stdin. If a TTY
is available, the command will prompt for text.

## Examples

Initialize a rotation:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys \
    -init \
    -key-shares=15 \
    -key-threshold=9
```

Initialize a rotation when Auto Unseal is used for the OpenBao cluster:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys \
    -target=recovery \
    -init \
    -key-shares=15 \
    -key-threshold=9
```

Initialize a rotation and activate the verification process:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys \
    -init \
    -key-shares=15 \
    -key-threshold=9 \
    -verify
```

Rotate and encrypt the resulting unseal keys with PGP:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys \
    -init \
    -key-shares=3 \
    -key-threshold=2 \
    -pgp-keys="keybase:openbao,keybase:jefferai,keybase:sethvargo"
```

Rotate an Auto Unseal OpenBao and encrypt the resulting recovery keys with PGP:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys \
    -target=recovery \
    -init \
    -key-shares=1 \
    -key-threshold=1 \
    -pgp-keys=keybase:grahamopenbao
```

Store encrypted PGP keys in OpenBao's core:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys \
    -init \
    -pgp-keys="..." \
    -backup
```

Retrieve backed-up unseal keys:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys -backup-retrieve
```

Delete backed-up unseal keys:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys -backup-delete
```

Perform the verification of the rotation using the verification nonce:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys -verify -nonce="..."
```

## Usage

The following flags are available in addition to the [standard set of
flags](/docs/commands) included on all commands.

### Output options

- `-format` `(string: "table")` - Print the output in the given format. Valid
  formats are "table", "json", or "yaml". This can also be specified via the
  `BAO_FORMAT` environment variable.

### Command options

- `-cancel` `(bool: false)` - Reset the rotation progress. This will discard
  any submitted unseal keys or configuration. The default is false.

- `-init` `(bool: false)` - Initialize the rotation. This can only be done if
  there's not one in progress. Customize the new number of key shares and
  threshold using the `-key-shares` and `-key-threshold` flags respectively.

- `-key-shares` `(int: 5)` - Number of key shares to split the generated root
  key into. This is the number of "unseal keys" to generate. This is aliased as
  `-n`

- `-key-threshold` `(int: 3)` - Number of key shares required to reconstruct the
  root key. This must be less than or equal to `-key-shares`. This is aliased as
  `-t`.

- `-nonce` `(string: "")` - Nonce value provided at initialization. The same
  nonce value must be provided with each unseal key.

- `-pgp-keys` `(string: "...")` - Comma-separated list of paths to files on disk
  containing public PGP keys OR a comma-separated list of Keybase usernames
  using the format `keybase:<username>`. When supplied, the generated unseal
  keys will be encrypted and base64-encoded in the order specified in this list.

- `-status` `(bool: false)` - Print the status of the current attempt without
  providing an unseal key. The default is false.

- `-target` `(string: "barrier")` - Target for rotation. "recovery" only applies
  when HSM support is enabled or using [Auto Unseal](/docs/concepts/seal#auto-unseal).

- `-verify` `(bool: false)` - Indicate during the phase `-init` that the
  verification process is activated for the rotation. Along with `-nonce` option
  it indicates that the nonce given is for the verification process.

### Backup options

- `-backup` `(bool: false)` - Store a backup of the current PGP encrypted unseal
  keys in OpenBao's core. The encrypted values can be recovered in the event of
  failure or discarded after success. See the -backup-delete and
  \-backup-retrieve options for more information. This option only applies when
  the existing unseal keys were PGP encrypted.

- `-backup-delete` `(bool: false)` - Delete any stored backup unseal keys.

- `-backup-retrieve` `(bool: false)` - Retrieve the backed-up unseal keys. This
  option is only available if the PGP keys were provided and the backup has not
  been deleted.

Commit message:

refactor: added info panel to newly introduced endpoints in v2.4.0
Signed-off-by: Wojciech Slabosz <wojciech.slabosz@sap.com>

website/content/docs/commands/operator/rotate-keys.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: rotate-keys
description: |-
  The "operator rotate-keys" command generates a new set of unseal keys. 
  This can optionally change the total number of key shares or the required 
  threshold to reconstruct the root key. The rotation does not introduce
  downtime, but it requires the OpenBao instance to be unsealed and a quorum
  of existing unseal keys to be provided.
---

# operator rotate-keys

:::info

The `operator rotate-keys` command is available from version `v2.4.0`.

:::

The `operator rotate-keys` command generates a new set of unseal keys. 
This can optionally change the total number of key shares or the required 
threshold to reconstruct the root key. The rotation does not introduce
downtime, but it requires the OpenBao instance to be unsealed and a quorum
of existing unseal keys to be provided.

An unseal key may be provided directly on the command line as an argument to the
command. If key is specified as "-", the command will read from stdin. If a TTY
is available, the command will prompt for text.

## Examples

Initialize a rotation:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys \
    -init \
    -key-shares=15 \
    -key-threshold=9
```

Initialize a rotation when Auto Unseal is used for the OpenBao cluster:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys \
    -target=recovery \
    -init \
    -key-shares=15 \
    -key-threshold=9
```

Initialize a rotation and activate the verification process:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys \
    -init \
    -key-shares=15 \
    -key-threshold=9 \
    -verify
```

Rotate and encrypt the resulting unseal keys with PGP:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys \
    -init \
    -key-shares=3 \
    -key-threshold=2 \
    -pgp-keys="keybase:openbao,keybase:jefferai,keybase:sethvargo"
```

Rotate an Auto Unseal OpenBao and encrypt the resulting recovery keys with PGP:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys \
    -target=recovery \
    -init \
    -key-shares=1 \
    -key-threshold=1 \
    -pgp-keys=keybase:grahamopenbao
```

Store encrypted PGP keys in OpenBao's core:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys \
    -init \
    -pgp-keys="..." \
    -backup
```

Retrieve backed-up unseal keys:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys -backup-retrieve
```

Delete backed-up unseal keys:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys -backup-delete
```

Perform the verification of the rotation using the verification nonce:

```shell-session
$ bao operator rotate-keys -verify -nonce="..."
```

## Usage

The following flags are available in addition to the [standard set of
flags](/docs/commands) included on all commands.

### Output options

- `-format` `(string: "table")` - Print the output in the given format. Valid
  formats are "table", "json", or "yaml". This can also be specified via the
  `BAO_FORMAT` environment variable.

### Command options

- `-cancel` `(bool: false)` - Reset the rotation progress. This will discard
  any submitted unseal keys or configuration. The default is false.

- `-init` `(bool: false)` - Initialize the rotation. This can only be done if
  there's not one in progress. Customize the new number of key shares and
  threshold using the `-key-shares` and `-key-threshold` flags respectively.

- `-key-shares` `(int: 5)` - Number of key shares to split the generated root
  key into. This is the number of "unseal keys" to generate. This is aliased as
  `-n`

- `-key-threshold` `(int: 3)` - Number of key shares required to reconstruct the
  root key. This must be less than or equal to `-key-shares`. This is aliased as
  `-t`.

- `-nonce` `(string: "")` - Nonce value provided at initialization. The same
  nonce value must be provided with each unseal key.

- `-pgp-keys` `(string: "...")` - Comma-separated list of paths to files on disk
  containing public PGP keys OR a comma-separated list of Keybase usernames
  using the format `keybase:<username>`. When supplied, the generated unseal
  keys will be encrypted and base64-encoded in the order specified in this list.

- `-status` `(bool: false)` - Print the status of the current attempt without
  providing an unseal key. The default is false.

- `-target` `(string: "barrier")` - Target for rotation. "recovery" only applies
  when HSM support is enabled or using [Auto Unseal](/docs/concepts/seal#auto-unseal).

- `-verify` `(bool: false)` - Indicate during the phase `-init` that the
  verification process is activated for the rotation. Along with `-nonce` option
  it indicates that the nonce given is for the verification process.

### Backup options

- `-backup` `(bool: false)` - Store a backup of the current PGP encrypted unseal
  keys in OpenBao's core. The encrypted values can be recovered in the event of
  failure or discarded after success. See the -backup-delete and
  \-backup-retrieve options for more information. This option only applies when
  the existing unseal keys were PGP encrypted.

- `-backup-delete` `(bool: false)` - Delete any stored backup unseal keys.

- `-backup-retrieve` `(bool: false)` - Retrieve the backed-up unseal keys. This
  option is only available if the PGP keys were provided and the backup has not
  been deleted.
