website/content/docs/commands/operator/validate-config.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: validate-config
description: |-
  "bao operator validate-config" is a new operator-centric command, focused on 
  validating OpenBao configuration. It is similar to "bao operator diagnose",
  but it only validates the config and not the system it is running on (e.g. it 
  will not check that the raft directory is writable). This allows it to be 
  used on an operators Laptop or in CI validations.

---

# validate-config

The operator diagnose command should be used primarily before the configuration
is copied to the OpenBao nodes. For example on the operators Laptop and/or in
CI validations, if you manage your configuration with git.
You might also want to run it on the OpenBao node after updating the configuration
and before restarting the node.
In case your OpenBao nodes does not start, running [`bao operator disgnose`](
../diagnose) should be preferred.

## Usage

The following flags are available in addition to the [standard set of
flags](../index.mdx) included on all commands.

### Output options

- `-format` `(string: "table")` - Print the output in the given format. Valid
  formats are "table" or "json". This can also be specified via the `BAO_FORMAT`
  environment variable.

### Command options

- `-config` `(string; "")` - The path to the OpenBao configuration file used by
the OpenBao server on startup.

Commit message:

Added documentation about BAO_CONFIG_PATH
Signed-off-by: Norman Abramovitz <nabramovitz@fivetwenty.io>

website/content/docs/commands/operator/validate-config.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: validate-config
description: |-
  "bao operator validate-config" is a new operator-centric command, focused on 
  validating OpenBao configuration. It is similar to "bao operator diagnose",
  but it only validates the config and not the system it is running on (e.g. it 
  will not check that the raft directory is writable). This allows it to be 
  used on an operators Laptop or in CI validations.

---

# validate-config

The operator diagnose command should be used primarily before the configuration
is copied to the OpenBao nodes. For example on the operators Laptop and/or in
CI validations, if you manage your configuration with git.
You might also want to run it on the OpenBao node after updating the configuration
and before restarting the node.
In case your OpenBao nodes does not start, running [`bao operator disgnose`](
../diagnose) should be preferred.

## Usage

The following flags are available in addition to the [standard set of
flags](../index.mdx) included on all commands.

### Output options

- `-format` `(string: "table")` - Print the output in the given format. Valid
  formats are "table" or "json". This can also be specified via the `BAO_FORMAT`
  environment variable.

### Command options

- `-config` `(string; "")` - The paths to the OpenBao configuration files used by 
the OpenBao server on startup. See the [server `-config` option](../../server#command-options) for more details.
