website/content/docs/rfcs/control-groups.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Control Groups
description: |-
  An OpenBao RFC for protecting paths by a control group
---

# Support control groups for authorizing paths

## Summary

This feature would implement second-party authorization for protected
resources. A control-group restriction placed on a path would require
a user to obtain prior authorization before the action would
succeed. 

Control groups utilize the existing response-wrapping workflow
(https://openbao.org/docs/concepts/response-wrapping/) because of the
asynchronous character, and usage would follow this general pattern (via API
endpoints):

1. A path is assigned a control-group policy
2. A user requesting the protected path receives a wrapped response with a `wrapping_accessor` 
and `wrapping_token`.
3. Using the `wrapping_accessor`, a control group member can review and authorize the request.
4. Access to the wrapped response via `wrapping_token` will now succeed once approved.

A second phase might add a notification workflow, but this is not essential:
1. A user requests access to the protected resource
2. Members of the control group receive a notification of the request (on logging in to OpenBao web UI?)
3. The original requester receives notification of the control-group approval when it occurs

## Problem Statement

An organization may want to review access to certain paths (eg, pki
issuance) on a case-by-case basis, and/or requires a "second set
of eyes" to approve access to a path. The reviewers are indicated by
specifying a control group, whose members can grant access by using
an `authorize` endpoint. However, the control group members should not be able to
grant their own personal access.

## User-facing Description

Two users are implicated in the control-group workflow: a requester
and an approver.  The requester will attempt to access a protected
path, but will receive a wrapped response. The approver can access
metadata about the request (entity, path, etc) and approve it. Once approved,
the response can be unwrapped.

## Technical Description

The control group implementation might consist of the following.
1. A control-group access policy:
   1. Denies data access by default
   2. Specifies the control group, number of authorizations, ttl
   2. Allows authorizing action to control group members
   3. Allows data access to authorized entity
2. An authorizing endpoint:
   1. Using wrapping accessor
   2. Self authorization not permitted
3. Authorization storage
   1. Request, authorization details, and response will be stored in `cubbyhole`.

## API Details

### Policy Extension

Control groups could be implemented as a new object in the ACL policy
for a path. Multiple named "factors" can be specified, eg:

```
path "pki/issue/*" {
  capabilities = ["create", "update"]

  control-group = {
    factor "pki-approvers" {
      identity {
		# Control groups that can authorize access
		group_names = ["pki-approvers", "security-team"]
		approvals = 1

		# Max duration for which authorization is valid
		ttl = "5d"

		# Allow self-authorization when true
		self_authorization = false
	  }
	}
  }
}
```

Using a path having the policy would look like the following:

```
# Normal request by some user (blocked by control group by default)
POST /pki/issue/web-server
{
  "common_name": "web.example.com",
  "ttl": "24h"
}

# Which returns a wrapped response:
{
	"wrapping_token": "bd3dbfbb-f80f-488c-9981-08ebb3f51020",
	"wrapping_accessor": "0fe8e46b-dc82-4ceb-b74b-07425d27fa8e",
}
```

An authorizer can view and approve the request:
```
# Authorizer inspecting the request
POST /sys/control-group/request
{
	"accessor": "0fe8e46b-dc82-4ceb-b74b-07425d27fa8e",
}

# Which returns the request content:
{
  "data": {
    "created": "2023-12-01T10:30:00Z",
    "approved": false,
    "request_path": "pki/issue/web-server",
	"request_payload": {
	  "common_name": "web.example.com",
	  "ttl": "24h"
	},
    "request_entity": {
      "id": "8feb298c-a84d-4c73-9c33-6a87853e95cf",
      "name": "Requester"
    },
    "authorizations": []
  }
}

# Authorizer approving the request
POST /sys/control-group/approve
{
	"wrapping_accessor": "0fe8e46b-dc82-4ceb-b74b-07425d27fa8e",
}

# Which returns the updated request status
{
  "data": {
    "created": "2023-12-01T10:30:00Z",
    "approved": true,
    "request_path": "pki/issue/web-server",
	"request_payload": {
	  "common_name": "web.example.com",
	  "ttl": "24h"
	},
    "request_entity": {
      "id": "8feb298c-a84d-4c73-9c33-6a87853e95cf",
      "name": "Requester"
    },
    "authorizations": [
      {
        "entity_id": "d5c59658-b210-4f1d-9a2e-68ccf0512e4e",
        "entity_name": "Authorizer"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Requesting user can now retrieve the response:

```
# Unwrap request
POST /sys/wrapping/unwrap
{
	"token": "bd3dbfbb-f80f-488c-9981-08ebb3f51020"
}

# Which returns the original response data:
{
  "request_id": "12345678-abcd-efgh-ijkl-123456789abc",
  "lease_id": "",
  "renewable": false,
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "data": {
	"ca_chain": [
	  "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIBuDCCAV6g...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----"
	],
	"certificate": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIDATCCAemgAwIBAgIUK8ZQgT...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
	"expiration": 1701504000,
	"issuing_ca": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIBuDCCAV6gAwIBAgIUK8ZQ...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
	"not_before": 1701500400,
	"private_key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\nMIIEvQIBADANBgkqhkiG9w0B...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----",
	"private_key_type": "rsa",
	"serial_number": "2b:c6:50:81:3f:e4:2a:1d:f3:4c:5e:6f:8a:9b:0c:1d:2e:3f:4a:5b"
  },
  "warnings": null,
  "auth": null
}
```

## Rationale and Alternatives
The control group concept has a number of benefits:

1. The administrator can delegate authorization responsibility to a
   group, any member of which can grant access
2. By inhibiting self-approval, the control group policy can ensure "second set of eyes"
3. The wrapped_response workflow provides some additional security

A workflow for requesting/granting in the UI could make admistra2tion easier. 

As an alternative: the same second-person security arrangement can be
achieved with a basic policy granting access to a path. However, this
requires policy-granting permission for the "control group" member,
and extra work to subsequently remove the policy.

## Downsides

Involving a second actor in securing a path creates some complexity and impedence for users.

## Security Implications

Using response wrapping and requiring authorization should increase
security. Only the original token holder (the requester) will be able
to obtain the original response.

## User/Developer Experience

Reusing the response wrapping framework should be familiar, but the developer will need

## Unresolved Questions

Using `sys/control-group` and the `cubbyhole` mounts might lead us to
break the namespace partitioning. Should these be per namespace?

## Related Issues

- https://github.com/openbao/openbao/issues/1669

## Proof of Concept

TBD

Commit message:

typo fix and additional User/Developer experience
Signed-off-by: Geoff Wilson <geoff@gr-oss.io>

website/content/docs/rfcs/control-groups.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Control Groups
description: |-
  An OpenBao RFC for protecting paths by a control group
---

# Support control groups for authorizing paths

## Summary

This feature would implement second-party authorization for protected
resources. A control-group restriction placed on a path would require
a user to obtain prior authorization before the action would
succeed. 

Control groups utilize the existing response-wrapping workflow
(https://openbao.org/docs/concepts/response-wrapping/) because of the
asynchronous character, and usage would follow this general pattern (via API
endpoints):

1. A path is assigned a control-group policy
2. A user requesting the protected path receives a wrapped response with a `wrapping_accessor` 
and `wrapping_token`.
3. Using the `wrapping_accessor`, a control group member can review and authorize the request.
4. Access to the wrapped response via `wrapping_token` will now succeed once approved.

A second phase might add a notification workflow, but this is not essential:
1. A user requests access to the protected resource
2. Members of the control group receive a notification of the request (on logging in to OpenBao web UI?)
3. The original requester receives notification of the control-group approval when it occurs

## Problem Statement

An organization may want to review access to certain paths (eg, pki
issuance) on a case-by-case basis, and/or requires a "second set
of eyes" to approve access to a path. The reviewers are indicated by
specifying a control group, whose members can grant access by using
an `authorize` endpoint. However, the control group members should not be able to
grant their own personal access.

## User-facing Description

Two users are implicated in the control-group workflow: a requester
and an approver.  The requester will attempt to access a protected
path, but will receive a wrapped response. The approver can access
metadata about the request (entity, path, etc) and approve it. Once approved,
the response can be unwrapped.

## Technical Description

The control group implementation will consist of the following.
1. A control-group access policy:
   1. Denies data access by default
   2. Specifies the control group, number of authorizations, ttl
   2. Allows authorizing action to control group members
   3. Allows data access to authorized entity
2. An authorizing endpoint (in `sys/control-group`):
   1. Using wrapping accessor
   2. Self authorization not permitted
3. Authorization storage
   1. Request, authorization details, and response will be stored in
      wrapped response/`cubbyhole`.

Reusing the response wrapping framework should be familiar, but the
developer will need to add new `control-group` paths to the system
backend. Additional logic will be needed in the `wrapping/unwrap`
handlers, as well as policy application.

## API Details

### Policy Extension

Control groups could be implemented as a new object in the ACL policy
for a path. Multiple named "factors" can be specified, eg:

```
path "pki/issue/*" {
  capabilities = ["create", "update"]

  control-group = {
    factor "pki-approvers" {
      identity {
		# Control groups that can authorize access
		group_names = ["pki-approvers", "security-team"]
		approvals = 1

		# Max duration for which authorization is valid
		ttl = "5d"

		# Allow self-authorization when true
		self_authorization = false
	  }
	}
  }
}
```

Using a path having the policy would look like the following:

```
# Normal request by some user (blocked by control group by default)
POST /pki/issue/web-server
{
  "common_name": "web.example.com",
  "ttl": "24h"
}

# Which returns a wrapped response:
{
	"wrapping_token": "bd3dbfbb-f80f-488c-9981-08ebb3f51020",
	"wrapping_accessor": "0fe8e46b-dc82-4ceb-b74b-07425d27fa8e",
}
```

An authorizer can view and approve the request:
```
# Authorizer inspecting the request
POST /sys/control-group/request
{
	"accessor": "0fe8e46b-dc82-4ceb-b74b-07425d27fa8e",
}

# Which returns the request content:
{
  "data": {
    "created": "2023-12-01T10:30:00Z",
    "approved": false,
    "request_path": "pki/issue/web-server",
	"request_payload": {
	  "common_name": "web.example.com",
	  "ttl": "24h"
	},
    "request_entity": {
      "id": "8feb298c-a84d-4c73-9c33-6a87853e95cf",
      "name": "Requester"
    },
    "authorizations": []
  }
}

# Authorizer approving the request
POST /sys/control-group/approve
{
	"wrapping_accessor": "0fe8e46b-dc82-4ceb-b74b-07425d27fa8e",
}

# Which returns the updated request status
{
  "data": {
    "created": "2023-12-01T10:30:00Z",
    "approved": true,
    "request_path": "pki/issue/web-server",
	"request_payload": {
	  "common_name": "web.example.com",
	  "ttl": "24h"
	},
    "request_entity": {
      "id": "8feb298c-a84d-4c73-9c33-6a87853e95cf",
      "name": "Requester"
    },
    "authorizations": [
      {
        "entity_id": "d5c59658-b210-4f1d-9a2e-68ccf0512e4e",
        "entity_name": "Authorizer"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Requesting user can now retrieve the response:

```
# Unwrap request
POST /sys/wrapping/unwrap
{
	"token": "bd3dbfbb-f80f-488c-9981-08ebb3f51020"
}

# Which returns the original response data:
{
  "request_id": "12345678-abcd-efgh-ijkl-123456789abc",
  "lease_id": "",
  "renewable": false,
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "data": {
	"ca_chain": [
	  "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIBuDCCAV6g...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----"
	],
	"certificate": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIDATCCAemgAwIBAgIUK8ZQgT...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
	"expiration": 1701504000,
	"issuing_ca": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIBuDCCAV6gAwIBAgIUK8ZQ...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
	"not_before": 1701500400,
	"private_key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\nMIIEvQIBADANBgkqhkiG9w0B...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----",
	"private_key_type": "rsa",
	"serial_number": "2b:c6:50:81:3f:e4:2a:1d:f3:4c:5e:6f:8a:9b:0c:1d:2e:3f:4a:5b"
  },
  "warnings": null,
  "auth": null
}
```

## Rationale and Alternatives
The control group concept has a number of benefits:

1. The administrator can delegate authorization responsibility to a
   group, any member of which can grant access
2. By inhibiting self-approval, the control group policy can ensure "second set of eyes"
3. The wrapped_response workflow provides some additional security

A workflow for requesting/granting in the UI could make admistration easier.

As an alternative: the same second-person security arrangement can be
achieved with a basic policy granting access to a path. However, this
requires policy-granting permission for the "control group" member,
and extra work to subsequently remove the policy.

## Downsides

Involving a second actor in securing a path creates some complexity and impedence for users.

## Security Implications

Using response wrapping and requiring authorization should increase
security. Only the original token holder (the requester) will be able
to obtain the original response.

## User/Developer Experience

The api is following Vault Enterprise, so it should be familiar for
users who are already using the equivalent feature there. For new
users, we will need some documentation describing usage and value. For
users who do not need, it can be ignored.

## Unresolved Questions
Using `sys/control-group` and the `cubbyhole` mounts might lead us to
break the namespace partitioning. Should these be per namespace?

## Related Issues

- https://github.com/openbao/openbao/issues/1669

## Proof of Concept

TBD
