website/content/docs/rfcs/external-keys.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: External Keys from KMSs and HSMs
description: |-
  External Key Configuration for KMS and HSM Access
---

# External Key Configuration for KMS and HSM Access

## Summary

For better security of cryptographic material, keys within OpenBao should
optionally be backed by a KMS or HSM solution. We design a per-namespace
repository of seal configurations, with mount-specific key information to
prevent cross-mount usage of keys except via explicit reuse.

We call this solution External Keys to differentiate it from HashiCorp
Vault Enterprise's Managed Keys.

## Problem Statement

Upstream HashiCorp Vault Enterprise implemented Managed Keys, which have
the following properties:

1. KMS library configurations live in storage and apply to any namespace;
   this takes a `type` and a `name` in a `kms_library` stanza. This sets
   global configuration for the provider; per
   [documentation](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/configuration/kms-library)
   this is only a PKCS#11 library configuration as it is the only type that
   requires elements in storage.

2. Within each namespace, a repository of keys accessible only to that
   namespace exist.

  - Each `type` of key can be listed (via  `LIST /sys/managed-keys/<:type>`),
    to show which keys with the particular type exist).
  - Creating a key sets its name (`POST /sys/managed-keys/<:type>/<:key-name>`),
    the name of the library (if PKCS#11), and all credential information.

  In particular, this means that there is no central repository (within a
  namespace) of credentials, making rotation harder.

Further, while less restrictive, any namespace can use any `kms_library` or
seal type; a namespace admin has full control over policies and thus a global
operator cannot restrict types.

## User-facing Description

We suggest the following design for external keys:

1. The `external_keys` stanzas take an optional `namespaces = []` parameter,
   taking items of the form `uuid:<ns-uuid>`, `id:<ns-accessor>`, or
   `path:<ns-path>`, to identify namespaces that this library is allowed to be
   used in. This prevents cross-tenant library usage problems by preventing them
   from using the underlying library. An empty `namespaces` parameter implicitly
   allows the root namespace, a non-empty list must explicitly include the root
   namespace (e.g., via `id:root`) to keep it allowed besides any other listed
   namespaces.

   - In the future, when support for pluginized KMS integrations are added, we
     can use an `external_keys "binary" { ... }` stanza to limit access to
     specific external libraries or hosts that they run on.

   - The `name` of this stanza gets registered as the library type; it must
     not conflict with any existing type and `pkcs11` will not be a valid
     type, instead requiring a named configuration. E.g., `gcpckms`, `thales`,
     `entrust`, and `securosys` might all be valid `types` for the endpoints
     below, specified in the `name` field in the stanza.

   For example, to register the SoftHSM PKCS#11 library as library type
   `"softhsm"` and allow its usage in two namespaces:

   ```hcl
   external_keys "pkcs11" {
     name       = "softhsm"
     library    = "/usr/lib/softhsm/libsofthsm2.so"
     namespaces = ["path:foo/bar", "uuid:c0de1570-688e-41ad-ad97-1395fe30cbbd"]
   }
   ```

2. We add a new path `sys/namespaces/<:path>/external_keys`, with an option,
   `external_key_types`, which limits the allowed HSM and KMS types within
   this namespace and all children. This allows both the root operator to
   restrict immediate children, but also for future tenant operators to
   restrict their own child namespaces. This reflects the hierarchical nature
   of access (that a parent namespace operator can create a policy that
   effectively grants them full access to a child namespace).

3. Within the `sys/external-keys` space, we implement the following APIs:

   - `configs/<:config-name>`, to configure KMS or HSM _access_ information,
     such as type (above) or credentials. This gives a single point of rotation
     for any given key using this provider.

     A configuration may be inherited from a direct parent namespace via the
     special `inherits = "<:config-name>"` key. This inheritance mechanism
     is chosen over a `inherited = true` flag in the child namespace or over
     a `inheritable=true` flag in the parent namespace to avoid potential
     naming conflicts across the namespace hierarchy, or alternatively to avoid
     the need for a mechanism/format to address a specific ancestor namespace.
     Inherited configurations are similar to symbolic links; they do not copy
     information to the child namespace or enable read/write access to the
     original configuration in any way. To propagate configurations across
     several levels of child namespaces, you would build a chain of inherited
     configurations.

     `/` and `:` will be forbidden identifiers for `config-name`.

   - `configs/<:config-name>/keys/<:key-name>`, to maintain mappings of keys
     and their access information. A `key-name` is unique per `config-name`, not
     per namespace. The key will have a UUID associated with it to allow it to
     be referenced independently of `config-name`. Otherwise, use in plugins
     will require the `<config-name>/<key-name>` format.

   - `configs/<:config-name>/keys/<:key-name>/grants/<:mount-path>` will be
     used to add or remove mounts from accessing the key.

     Grants handle both mount paths local to the key configuration's namespace
     just as mount paths of any child namespaces, e.g. `my-child/pki`. Combined
     with inherited configurations via `inherits = ...`, this lets a namespace
     pass down a key to select mounts in child namespaces. Note that grants
     can only be configured at the "origin" configuration and cannot be set for
     inherited configurations.

Notably, unlike Vault Enterprise, no key material is implicitly created at
the key association step; it must already exist within the KMS or HSM and this
is just a linking.

Furthermore, rather than relying on mount tuning, the use of explicit grants,
with mounts in the path, allows for fine-grained delegation of permission via
the standard ACL models, assuming the operator does not have policy
modification permissions.

In the future, key creation may be supported as a follow-up RFC.

Individual mount types (PKI, SSH, Identity, ...) will need to be updated to
support "creating" keys via using external keys instead of existing keys. This
will be done with the `config-name` plus `key-name` association.

## Technical Description

This requires an improvement to the configuration, along with allowing these new
stanzas to be reloaded via `SIGHUP`.

Unlike the seal mechanism, where key rotation is automatically detected by the
wrapper and the root key is transparently re-encrypted, binding in the
external keys layer is assumed to be to an exact underlying key at a very
specific version and not to a set of key (or a keyring).

### SystemView Changes

Elided from the above user-facing description is the core technical
improvement: plugins interact with core via the `logical.SystemView`
[interface](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/blob/48e7bd6f8358191056bdd0d2ac8b11e9e253254d/sdk/logical/system_view.go#L18-L99),
which will need to be extended to support the following new APIs:

1. `ListKeys() (map[string]*ExternalKeyInfo, error)` - to return information
   about external keys accessible to this mount.
2. `GetKey() (logical.ExternalKey, error)` - to return a helper to
   use external keys. This will be implemented in `go-kms-wrapper` as a new
   key type which _always_ performs direct operations via underlying keys.
   We will need to make this compatible with the `crypto` standard library
   (to support e.g., `crypto.Signer` and other such interfaces like the
   limited [`crypto11` library](https://github.com/ThalesGroup/crypto11)
   does). `GetKey()` would likely take both a `config-name` and `key-name`
   parameter to uniquely identify a key.

`ExternalKey` will implement one or two standard Go types, depending on the
capabilities of the underlying keys: `crypto.Decrypter` and `crypto.Signer`.
Once an `ExternalKey` has been retrieved via `GetKey()`, a secret engine can
check for interface support by type casting. Access to private keys will not be
returned.

In the future, HMAC-based keys may be supported. This means that initially,
Transit will not support modes which require HMAC.

### Plugin Key Usage

Upstream HashiCorp Vault Enterprise uses the `managed_key_name` and
`managed_key_uuid` fields. We will support these as well as the
`external_key_name` and `external_key_uuid` fields.

The intention here is that plugin authors will enable external keys via an
explicit key type (`key_type=managed_key` or `key_type=external_key`). The
actual key type will be inferred from the underlying external key instance.
When providing these parameters, the above `external_key_name` or
`external_key_uuid` fields will need to be provided, which will be used for
the lookup via the SystemView API.

In Transit in particular, each key version could reference different values
for `external_key_name` and `external_key_uuid`, giving different versions.
Any automatic rotation will be disabled.

## Rationale and Alternatives

Reimplementing Managed Keys as it exists in Vault Enterprise does not match
the future semantics we hope to include for namespaces, such as stronger
multi-tenant separation (e.g., [namespace-level sealing](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/issues/1170)).

Another alternative would be to implement a HSM or KMS library as a top-level
secrets engine in OpenBao. This would directly expose actions on keys as
top-level APIs. With a cross-plugin communication mechanism, this could open
up a fully-pluggable system for such keys. However, this opens a significant
weakness: OpenBao is assumed (in e.g., the PKI, SSH, and OIDC Identity
Provider) to _control_ signing capabilities. Users are not allowed to sign
arbitrary blobs but are instead restricted to values explicitly allowed by
these engines' roles. This means that opening up such cross-plugin
communication directly via users' existing token on a request would mean they
have to have API access to bypass these controls. Thus the only viable approach
is a per-mount identity, policy, and tokens, and would be significantly more
work.

## Downsides

One downside of this change is that users of managed keys will not be able
to directly transition to external keys. However, because managed keys are
transparent from an API caller's perspective and are only visible to
operators, this should only be a one-time impact on migration from Vault
Enterprise to OpenBao.

## Security Implications

This improves the overall security posture of the upstream feature and of
OpenBao: backing key material by a HSM or KMS is one of the strongest storage
mechanisms we could support.

## User/Developer Experience

This may have some impact on request time depending on the latency and
throughput of the external HSM or KMS.

## Unresolved Questions

n/a

## Related Issues

n/a

## Proof of Concept

n/a

Commit message:

Clarify UUID vs name referencing, symmetric interfaces, namespace config endpoint
Signed-off-by: Jonas Köhnen <jonas.koehnen@sap.com>

website/content/docs/rfcs/external-keys.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: External Keys from KMSs and HSMs
description: |-
  External Key Configuration for KMS and HSM Access
---

# External Key Configuration for KMS and HSM Access

## Summary

For better security of cryptographic material, keys within OpenBao should
optionally be backed by a KMS or HSM solution. We design a per-namespace
repository of seal configurations, with mount-specific key information to
prevent cross-mount usage of keys except via explicit reuse.

We call this solution External Keys to differentiate it from HashiCorp
Vault Enterprise's Managed Keys.

## Problem Statement

Upstream HashiCorp Vault Enterprise implemented Managed Keys, which have
the following properties:

1. KMS library configurations live in storage and apply to any namespace;
   this takes a `type` and a `name` in a `kms_library` stanza. This sets
   global configuration for the provider; per
   [documentation](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/configuration/kms-library)
   this is only a PKCS#11 library configuration as it is the only type that
   requires elements in storage.

2. Within each namespace, a repository of keys accessible only to that
   namespace exist.

  - Each `type` of key can be listed (via  `LIST /sys/managed-keys/<:type>`),
    to show which keys with the particular type exist).
  - Creating a key sets its name (`POST /sys/managed-keys/<:type>/<:key-name>`),
    the name of the library (if PKCS#11), and all credential information.

  In particular, this means that there is no central repository (within a
  namespace) of credentials, making rotation harder.

Further, while less restrictive, any namespace can use any `kms_library` or
seal type; a namespace admin has full control over policies and thus a global
operator cannot restrict types.

## User-facing Description

We suggest the following design for external keys:

1. The `external_keys` stanzas take an optional `namespaces = []` parameter,
   taking items of the form `uuid:<ns-uuid>`, `id:<ns-accessor>`, or
   `path:<ns-path>`, to identify namespaces that this library is allowed to be
   used in. This prevents cross-tenant library usage problems by preventing them
   from using the underlying library. An empty `namespaces` parameter implicitly
   allows the root namespace, a non-empty list must explicitly include the root
   namespace (e.g., via `id:root`) to keep it allowed besides any other listed
   namespaces.

   - In the future, when support for pluginized KMS integrations are added, we
     can use an `external_keys "binary" { ... }` stanza to limit access to
     specific external libraries or hosts that they run on.

   - The `name` of this stanza gets registered as the library type; it must
     not conflict with any existing type and `pkcs11` will not be a valid
     type, instead requiring a named configuration. E.g., `gcpckms`, `thales`,
     `entrust`, and `securosys` might all be valid `types` for the endpoints
     below, specified in the `name` field in the stanza.

   For example, to register the SoftHSM PKCS#11 library as library type
   `"softhsm"` and allow its usage in two namespaces:

   ```hcl
   external_keys "pkcs11" {
     name       = "softhsm"
     library    = "/usr/lib/softhsm/libsofthsm2.so"
     namespaces = ["path:foo/bar", "uuid:c0de1570-688e-41ad-ad97-1395fe30cbbd"]
   }
   ```

2. We add a new path `sys/namespaces/<:path>/external-keys`, with an option,
   `types`, which limits the allowed HSM and KMS types within this namespace
   and all children. This allows both the root operator to restrict immediate
   children, but also for future tenant operators to restrict their own child
   namespaces. This reflects the hierarchical nature of access (that a parent
   namespace operator can create a policy that effectively grants them full
   access to a child namespace).

3. Within the `sys/external-keys` space, we implement the following APIs:

   - `configs/<:config-name>`, to configure KMS or HSM _access_ information,
     such as type (above) or credentials. This gives a single point of rotation
     for any given key using this provider.

     A configuration may be inherited from a direct parent namespace via the
     special `inherits = "<:config-name>"` key. This inheritance mechanism
     is chosen over a `inherited = true` flag in the child namespace or over
     a `inheritable=true` flag in the parent namespace to avoid potential
     naming conflicts across the namespace hierarchy, or alternatively to avoid
     the need for a mechanism/format to address a specific ancestor namespace.
     Inherited configurations are similar to symbolic links; they do not copy
     information to the child namespace or enable read/write access to the
     original configuration in any way. To propagate configurations across
     several levels of child namespaces, you would build a chain of inherited
     configurations.

     `/` and `:` will be forbidden identifiers for `config-name`.

   - `configs/<:config-name>/keys/<:key-name>`, to maintain mappings of keys
     and their access information. A `key-name` is unique per `config-name`, not
     per namespace. The key will have a UUID associated with it to allow it to
     be referenced independently of `config-name`. Otherwise, use in plugins
     will require the `<config-name>/<key-name>` format.

   - `configs/<:config-name>/keys/<:key-name>/grants/<:mount-path>` will be
     used to add or remove mounts from accessing the key.

     Grants handle both mount paths local to the key configuration's namespace
     just as mount paths of any child namespaces, e.g. `my-child/pki`. Combined
     with inherited configurations via `inherits = ...`, this lets a namespace
     pass down a key to select mounts in child namespaces. Note that grants
     can only be configured at the "origin" configuration and cannot be set for
     inherited configurations.

Notably, unlike Vault Enterprise, no key material is implicitly created at
the key association step; it must already exist within the KMS or HSM and this
is just a linking.

Furthermore, rather than relying on mount tuning, the use of explicit grants,
with mounts in the path, allows for fine-grained delegation of permission via
the standard ACL models, assuming the operator does not have policy
modification permissions.

In the future, key creation may be supported as a follow-up RFC.

Individual mount types (PKI, SSH, Identity, ...) will need to be updated to
support "creating" keys via using external keys instead of existing keys. This
will be done with the `config-name` plus `key-name` association.

## Technical Description

This requires an improvement to the configuration, along with allowing these new
stanzas to be reloaded via `SIGHUP`.

Unlike the seal mechanism, where key rotation is automatically detected by the
wrapper and the root key is transparently re-encrypted, binding in the
external keys layer is assumed to be to an exact underlying key at a very
specific version and not to a set of key (or a keyring).

### SystemView Changes

Elided from the above user-facing description is the core technical
improvement: plugins interact with core via the `logical.SystemView`
[interface](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/blob/48e7bd6f8358191056bdd0d2ac8b11e9e253254d/sdk/logical/system_view.go#L18-L99),
which will need to be extended to support the following new APIs:

1. `ListKeys() (map[string]*ExternalKeyInfo, error)` - to return information
   about external keys accessible to this mount.
2. `GetKey() (logical.ExternalKey, error)` - to return a helper to
   use external keys. This will be implemented in `go-kms-wrapper` as a new
   key type which _always_ performs direct operations via underlying keys.
   We will need to make this compatible with the `crypto` standard library
   (to support e.g., `crypto.Signer` and other such interfaces like the
   limited [`crypto11` library](https://github.com/ThalesGroup/crypto11)
   does). `GetKey()` would likely take both a `config-name` and `key-name`
   parameter to uniquely identify a key.

`ExternalKey` will implement a selection of standard Go interfaces, depending on
the capabilities of the underlying keys:

- `crypto.Signer`
- `crypto.Decrypter`
- `cipher.AEAD`

Once an `ExternalKey` has been retrieved via `GetKey()`, a secret
engine can check for interface support by type casting. Access to private keys
will not be returned.

In the future, HMAC-based keys may be supported. This means that initially,
Transit will not support modes which require HMAC.

### Plugin Key Usage

Upstream HashiCorp Vault Enterprise uses the `managed_key_name` and
`managed_key_uuid` fields. We will support an `external_key_name` field as
well as an equivalent alternative `managed_key_name` field to offer some
compatibility with existing workflows that target upstream. UUID fields are
unsupported, external keys are addressed by config name + key name only.

The intention here is that plugin authors will enable external keys via an
explicit key type (`key_type=external_key` or `key_type=managed_key`). The
actual key type will be inferred from the underlying external key instance.
When providing these parameters, the above `external_key_name` or
`managed_key_name` fields will need to be provided, which will be used for
the lookup via the SystemView API.

In Transit in particular, each key version could reference a different external
key via the `external_key_name` value. Any automatic rotation will be disabled.

## Rationale and Alternatives

Reimplementing Managed Keys as it exists in Vault Enterprise does not match
the future semantics we hope to include for namespaces, such as stronger
multi-tenant separation (e.g., [namespace-level sealing](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/issues/1170)).

Another alternative would be to implement a HSM or KMS library as a top-level
secrets engine in OpenBao. This would directly expose actions on keys as
top-level APIs. With a cross-plugin communication mechanism, this could open
up a fully-pluggable system for such keys. However, this opens a significant
weakness: OpenBao is assumed (in e.g., the PKI, SSH, and OIDC Identity
Provider) to _control_ signing capabilities. Users are not allowed to sign
arbitrary blobs but are instead restricted to values explicitly allowed by
these engines' roles. This means that opening up such cross-plugin
communication directly via users' existing token on a request would mean they
have to have API access to bypass these controls. Thus the only viable approach
is a per-mount identity, policy, and tokens, and would be significantly more
work.

## Downsides

One downside of this change is that users of managed keys will not be able
to directly transition to external keys. However, because managed keys are
transparent from an API caller's perspective and are only visible to
operators, this should only be a one-time impact on migration from Vault
Enterprise to OpenBao.

## Security Implications

This improves the overall security posture of the upstream feature and of
OpenBao: backing key material by a HSM or KMS is one of the strongest storage
mechanisms we could support.

## User/Developer Experience

This may have some impact on request time depending on the latency and
throughput of the external HSM or KMS.

## Unresolved Questions

n/a

## Related Issues

n/a

## Proof of Concept

n/a
