website/content/docs/rfcs/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
description: |-
  A list of OpenBao RFCs for features approved or landed in releases.
---

# RFCs

The following is a list of Requests for Comments (RFCs, a form of design
documentation) agreed upon by the community and the OpenBao Technical
Steering Committee.

## Accepted

 - [Authenticated rekey](/docs/rfcs/authenticated-rekey), to make the rekey
   root and rekey recovery keys endpoints authenticated and additionally
   authorized by a token and its policy.
 - [Declarative Self-Initialization](/docs/rfcs/self-init), to allow operators
   to define initial mounts, auth, policies, and audit logs from a static
   configuration applied once on early startup, preventing the need to call
   manual `sys/init` except with manual unseal mechanisms.
 - [External Key Configuration for KMS and HSM Access](/docs/rfcs/external-keys),
   to add support for secure key material storage and interaction from
   secrets engines like PKI, Transit, and SSH.

## Landed

 - [Paginated lists](/docs/rfcs/paginated-lists), for adding pagination
   to the user-facing API and storage backends. This landed in
   [PR #170](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/170).
 - [`mlock` removal](/docs/rfcs/mlock-removal), to remove the `mlock`
   syscall from OpenBao. This landed in
   [PR #363](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/363).
 - [Discontinue enforcing signed commits](/docs/rfcs/signed-commits), for
   allowing users to contribute without GPG/SSH signing their commits.
 - [Transactional storage](/docs/rfcs/transactions), for supporting safer
   storage semantics in `physical.Backend` and `logical.Storage` for use
   by Core and plugins. This landed in several parts concluding in
   [PR #292](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/292).
 - [SCAN operation](/docs/rfcs/scan-operation), for supporting recursive
   lists as a native operation and as an ACL capability. This landed in
   [PR #763](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/763).
 - [ACME TLS Listeners](/docs/rfcs/acme-tls-listeners), for supporting
   just-in-time certificate acquisition for TLS-enabled listeners via the
   ACME protocol. This landed in [PR #857](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/857).
 - [Safely limit pagination via ACL policies](/docs/rfcs/acl-paginated-lists),
   adding a new ACL policy parameter, `pagination_limit`, to restrict the size
   of list and scan operation requests. This landed in
   [PR #802](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/802).
 - [Split the mount table using transactional storage](/docs/rfcs/split-mount-tables),
   removes mount table limits, allowing potentially hundreds of thousands of
   mounts on a single scaled-up server. This landed in
   [622](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/622).
 - [SSH CA Multi-issuer](/docs/rfcs/ssh-ca-multi-issuer), adds support for multiple issuers on SSH secret engine mounts.
   Landed in [880](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/880).
 - [Using CEL Roles For JWT/OIDC Auth](/docs/rfcs/cel-jwt), adds support for CEL roles in JWT Auth
   Landed in [769](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/769)
 - [Using CEL Roles For PKI cert issuance/sign policies](/docs/rfcs/cel-pki), adds support for CEL roles in PKI
   Landed in [794](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/794)
 - [Filtering list and scan results](/docs/rfcs/filtering-list) to only
   results visible by the client token. This landed in
   [PR #1389](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/1389).
 - [Static Auto-Unseal](/docs/rfcs/static-auto-unseal), introducing a new
   auto-unseal mechanism, `static`, which loads keys from the environment,
   filesystem, or directly in the configuration file. Landed in
   [PR #1425](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/1425).
 - [Support inline authentication for non-leased operations](/docs/rfcs/inline-auth),
   to discuss how to incorporate authentication sent via the main operation,
   without returning or storing the resulting token, for operations that do
   not create leases. Landed in [PR #1433](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/1433).

## Strategic

 - [Best Practices for Integrating CEL in Auth, Secrets, and Elsewhere](/docs/rfcs/cel-best-practices),
   to discuss how Google's Common Expression Language should be integrated
   into OpenBao.

Commit message:

add rfc for web ui modernization
Signed-off-by: driif <andrii.fedorchuk@secretz.io>

website/content/docs/rfcs/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
description: |-
  A list of OpenBao RFCs for features approved or landed in releases.
---

# RFCs

The following is a list of Requests for Comments (RFCs, a form of design
documentation) agreed upon by the community and the OpenBao Technical
Steering Committee.

## Accepted

 - [Authenticated rekey](/docs/rfcs/authenticated-rekey), to make the rekey
   root and rekey recovery keys endpoints authenticated and additionally
   authorized by a token and its policy.
 - [Declarative Self-Initialization](/docs/rfcs/self-init), to allow operators
   to define initial mounts, auth, policies, and audit logs from a static
   configuration applied once on early startup, preventing the need to call
   manual `sys/init` except with manual unseal mechanisms.
 - [External Key Configuration for KMS and HSM Access](/docs/rfcs/external-keys),
   to add support for secure key material storage and interaction from
   secrets engines like PKI, Transit, and SSH.
 - [Web UI Modernization](/docs/rfcs/web-ui-modernization), for rewriting OpenBao’s web UI from EmberJS to React
   to create a modern, secure, and extensible interface.
   Landed in [1364](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/issues/1364)

## Landed

 - [Paginated lists](/docs/rfcs/paginated-lists), for adding pagination
   to the user-facing API and storage backends. This landed in
   [PR #170](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/170).
 - [`mlock` removal](/docs/rfcs/mlock-removal), to remove the `mlock`
   syscall from OpenBao. This landed in
   [PR #363](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/363).
 - [Discontinue enforcing signed commits](/docs/rfcs/signed-commits), for
   allowing users to contribute without GPG/SSH signing their commits.
 - [Transactional storage](/docs/rfcs/transactions), for supporting safer
   storage semantics in `physical.Backend` and `logical.Storage` for use
   by Core and plugins. This landed in several parts concluding in
   [PR #292](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/292).
 - [SCAN operation](/docs/rfcs/scan-operation), for supporting recursive
   lists as a native operation and as an ACL capability. This landed in
   [PR #763](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/763).
 - [ACME TLS Listeners](/docs/rfcs/acme-tls-listeners), for supporting
   just-in-time certificate acquisition for TLS-enabled listeners via the
   ACME protocol. This landed in [PR #857](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/857).
 - [Safely limit pagination via ACL policies](/docs/rfcs/acl-paginated-lists),
   adding a new ACL policy parameter, `pagination_limit`, to restrict the size
   of list and scan operation requests. This landed in
   [PR #802](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/802).
 - [Split the mount table using transactional storage](/docs/rfcs/split-mount-tables),
   removes mount table limits, allowing potentially hundreds of thousands of
   mounts on a single scaled-up server. This landed in
   [622](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/622).
 - [SSH CA Multi-issuer](/docs/rfcs/ssh-ca-multi-issuer), adds support for multiple issuers on SSH secret engine mounts.
   Landed in [880](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/880).
 - [Using CEL Roles For JWT/OIDC Auth](/docs/rfcs/cel-jwt), adds support for CEL roles in JWT Auth
   Landed in [769](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/769)
 - [Using CEL Roles For PKI cert issuance/sign policies](/docs/rfcs/cel-pki), adds support for CEL roles in PKI
   Landed in [794](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/794)
 - [Filtering list and scan results](/docs/rfcs/filtering-list) to only
   results visible by the client token. This landed in
   [PR #1389](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/1389).
 - [Static Auto-Unseal](/docs/rfcs/static-auto-unseal), introducing a new
   auto-unseal mechanism, `static`, which loads keys from the environment,
   filesystem, or directly in the configuration file. Landed in
   [PR #1425](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/1425).
 - [Support inline authentication for non-leased operations](/docs/rfcs/inline-auth),
   to discuss how to incorporate authentication sent via the main operation,
   without returning or storing the resulting token, for operations that do
   not create leases. Landed in [PR #1433](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/pull/1433).

## Strategic

 - [Best Practices for Integrating CEL in Auth, Secrets, and Elsewhere](/docs/rfcs/cel-best-practices),
   to discuss how Google's Common Expression Language should be integrated
   into OpenBao.
