website/content/docs/concepts/profiles.mdx, before:

---
description: >- 
    This is a reference for OpenBao’s profile system and declarative self-initialization. It describes the four supported source types and the initialize_name mechanism.
---

The Profiles processes declarative API requests with dynamic data source evaluation. 
The system implements the request/response pattern, supporting chained operations and accepting request handlers and parsed profile configurations. 
These are then transformed into templates for one or more API requests.

## Profiles end to end workflow

1. Profile Selection 

A caller invokes and passes any required parameters.

2. Input Validation 
Before any OpenBao operation is attempted, the engine:
- Ensures every declared parameter is present and of the correct type, e.g., string, int, bool.
- Confirms that each referenced source (environment variable, file path, earlier request, earlier response) is available.
- Rejects a run immediately if required inputs are missing, preventing half-configured states

3. Source Evaluation 

Profiles support four dynamic input sources (env, file, request, response)

4. Sequential Execution

Requests are executed exactly in the order they are listed. Within a single profile run there is no parallelism, guaranteeing that any request or response references always point to data that already exists.
If request fails, the engine stops immediately and returns an error to the caller, nothing after that point is attempted

5. Capturing History

## Request/Response history

In profiles every API call template and automatically tracked it so that its inputs and outputs can be reused later in the same run. 
The mechanism—implemented and integrated request just before it is issued and the corresponding response immediately after it completes, then stores both as JSON in an in-memory map keyed by the outer block and request name. 
Any subsequent field may reference those stored JSON objects through the request or response source types, using a selector to pull out a specific value. 
This design makes it possible to chain operations without writing additional code or shell scripts, while also preventing accidental overwrites by rejecting duplicate keys and guaranteeing that every reference resolves to a deterministically stored value.

## `value` Type

Values may be of the following types:

- A literal, such as a `string` or `map`. For example the following are valid
  literals:

  ```hcl
  path = "sys/audit/stdout"
  ```

  or

  ```hcl
  data = {
    type = "file"
  }
  ```

- A data source evaluation. These take the form:

  ```hcl
  {
    eval_source = "<source name>"
    eval_type = "<resulting type>"
    ... additional source-specific parameters ...
  }
  ```

  where

  - `eval_source` `(string: <required>)` - the name of the given source; valid
    values are defined below.
  - `eval_type` `(string: <required>)` - the output type after evaluation;
    recognized Go types are `string`, `int`, `float64`, `bool`, `[]string`,
    `map` (alias for `map[string]interface{}`), and `any` (alias for
    `interface{}`). If the output of the source evaluation is not convertable
    to the desired type, a runtime error will occur.

Note that fields within a source evaluation statement may not be themselves
be source evaluations.

#### `env` source

- `env_var` `(string: <required>)` - the name of an environment variable to
  return the value of.
- `require_present` `(bool: false)` - when asserted, require that the named
  environment variable must be present and err otherwise.

For example, to reference an initial admin password from an environment
variable:

```hcl
initialize "identity" {
  request "userpass-add-admin" {
    operation = "update"
    path = "auth/userpass/users/admin"
    data = {
      "password" = {
        eval_type = "string"
        eval_source = "env"
        env_var = "INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD"
        require_present = true
      }
      "token_policies" = ["superuser"]
    }
  }
}
```

#### `file` source

- `path` `(string: <required>)` - the path to the file to read. This file is
  only ever read once and is closed after use; thus a single piece of data
  could be provided on `/dev/stdin`. Errs if the file is not readable.

For example, to load a X.509 root CA into a PKI engine:

```hcl
initialize "ca-setup" {
  request "provision-root-ca" {
    operation = "update"
    path = "pki/issuers/import/cert"
    data = {
      "pem_bundle" = {
        eval_type = "string"
        eval_source = "file"
        path = "/data/root-ca.pem"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
#### `request` source

- `initialize_name` `(string: <required>)` - name of the initialize block to
  reference.
- `request_name` `(string: <required>)` - name of the request block inside the
  initialize block to reference. Must have already been executed.
- `field_selector` `(string or []string: <required>)` - field within the request
  to reference; for nesting, specify multiple values as a list. The request is
  marshalled directly; for example, to reference the path, use
  `field_selector = "path"`; to reference a specific field of input data, use
  `field_selector = ["data", "my_top_level_field"]`.

For example, to reference a previous request's input for a subsequent call:

```hcl
initialize "namespace-identity" {
  request "namespace-userpass-add-admin" {
    operation = "update"
    path = "ns1/auth/userpass/users/admin"
    data = {
      "password" = {
        eval_type = "string"
        eval_source = "request"
        initialize_name = "identity"
        request_name = "userpass-add-admin"
        field_selector = ["data", "password"]
      }
      "token_policies" = ["superuser"]
    }
  }
}
```

#### `response` source

- `initialize_name` `(string: <required>)` - name of the initialize block to
  reference.
- `request_name` `(string: <required>)` - name of the request block inside the
  initialize block, to reference the corresponding response of. Must have
  already been executed.
- `field_selector` `(string or []string: <required>)` - field within the
  response to reference; for nesting, specify multiple values as a list. The
  response is marshalled directly; for example, to reference a specific field
  of output data, use `field_selector = ["data", "my_top_level_field"]`.

For example, to reference a login token in a subsequent call:

```hcl
initialize "example" {
  request "use-auth" {
    operation = "update"
    path = "sys/namespaces/ns1"
    token = {
      eval_type = "string"
      eval_source = "response"
      initialize_name = "authenticate"
      response_name = "admin-userpass"
      field_selector = ["auth", "client_token"]
    }
    data = {}
  }
}

Commit message:

Clarify profile system request limitations
Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

website/content/docs/concepts/profiles.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Profile System
description: >- 
    This is a reference for OpenBao’s profile system and declarative self-initialization. It describes the four supported source types and the initialize_name mechanism.
---

The Profiles processes declarative API requests with dynamic data source evaluation. 
The system implements the request/response pattern, supporting chained operations and accepting request handlers and parsed profile configurations. 
These are then transformed into templates for one or more API requests.

:::info

All requests are subject to the same restrictions as if they were executed
normally: audit logging, authentication, and API variable restrictions (such as
unauthenticated rotation and audit device creation) still apply.

:::

## Profiles end to end workflow

1. Profile Selection 

A caller invokes and passes any required parameters.

2. Input Validation 
Before any OpenBao operation is attempted, the engine:
- Ensures every declared parameter is present and of the correct type, e.g., string, int, bool.
- Confirms that each referenced source (environment variable, file path, earlier request, earlier response) is available.
- Rejects a run immediately if required inputs are missing, preventing half-configured states

3. Source Evaluation 

Profiles support four dynamic input sources (env, file, request, response)

4. Sequential Execution

Requests are executed exactly in the order they are listed. Within a single profile run there is no parallelism, guaranteeing that any request or response references always point to data that already exists.
If request fails, the engine stops immediately and returns an error to the caller, nothing after that point is attempted

5. Capturing History

## Request/Response history

In profiles every API call template and automatically tracked it so that its inputs and outputs can be reused later in the same run. 
The mechanism—implemented and integrated request just before it is issued and the corresponding response immediately after it completes, then stores both as JSON in an in-memory map keyed by the outer block and request name. 
Any subsequent field may reference those stored JSON objects through the request or response source types, using a selector to pull out a specific value. 
This design makes it possible to chain operations without writing additional code or shell scripts, while also preventing accidental overwrites by rejecting duplicate keys and guaranteeing that every reference resolves to a deterministically stored value.

## `value` Type

Values may be of the following types:

- A literal, such as a `string` or `map`. For example the following are valid
  literals:

  ```hcl
  path = "sys/audit/stdout"
  ```

  or

  ```hcl
  data = {
    type = "file"
  }
  ```

- A data source evaluation. These take the form:

  ```hcl
  {
    eval_source = "<source name>"
    eval_type = "<resulting type>"
    ... additional source-specific parameters ...
  }
  ```

  where

  - `eval_source` `(string: <required>)` - the name of the given source; valid
    values are defined below.
  - `eval_type` `(string: <required>)` - the output type after evaluation;
    recognized Go types are `string`, `int`, `float64`, `bool`, `[]string`,
    `map` (alias for `map[string]interface{}`), and `any` (alias for
    `interface{}`). If the output of the source evaluation is not convertable
    to the desired type, a runtime error will occur.

Note that fields within a source evaluation statement may not be themselves
be source evaluations.

#### `env` source

- `env_var` `(string: <required>)` - the name of an environment variable to
  return the value of.
- `require_present` `(bool: false)` - when asserted, require that the named
  environment variable must be present and err otherwise.

For example, to reference an initial admin password from an environment
variable:

```hcl
initialize "identity" {
  request "userpass-add-admin" {
    operation = "update"
    path = "auth/userpass/users/admin"
    data = {
      "password" = {
        eval_type = "string"
        eval_source = "env"
        env_var = "INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD"
        require_present = true
      }
      "token_policies" = ["superuser"]
    }
  }
}
```

#### `file` source

- `path` `(string: <required>)` - the path to the file to read. This file is
  only ever read once and is closed after use; thus a single piece of data
  could be provided on `/dev/stdin`. Errs if the file is not readable.

For example, to load a X.509 root CA into a PKI engine:

```hcl
initialize "ca-setup" {
  request "provision-root-ca" {
    operation = "update"
    path = "pki/issuers/import/cert"
    data = {
      "pem_bundle" = {
        eval_type = "string"
        eval_source = "file"
        path = "/data/root-ca.pem"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
#### `request` source

- `initialize_name` `(string: <required>)` - name of the initialize block to
  reference.
- `request_name` `(string: <required>)` - name of the request block inside the
  initialize block to reference. Must have already been executed.
- `field_selector` `(string or []string: <required>)` - field within the request
  to reference; for nesting, specify multiple values as a list. The request is
  marshalled directly; for example, to reference the path, use
  `field_selector = "path"`; to reference a specific field of input data, use
  `field_selector = ["data", "my_top_level_field"]`.

For example, to reference a previous request's input for a subsequent call:

```hcl
initialize "namespace-identity" {
  request "namespace-userpass-add-admin" {
    operation = "update"
    path = "ns1/auth/userpass/users/admin"
    data = {
      "password" = {
        eval_type = "string"
        eval_source = "request"
        initialize_name = "identity"
        request_name = "userpass-add-admin"
        field_selector = ["data", "password"]
      }
      "token_policies" = ["superuser"]
    }
  }
}
```

#### `response` source

- `initialize_name` `(string: <required>)` - name of the initialize block to
  reference.
- `request_name` `(string: <required>)` - name of the request block inside the
  initialize block, to reference the corresponding response of. Must have
  already been executed.
- `field_selector` `(string or []string: <required>)` - field within the
  response to reference; for nesting, specify multiple values as a list. The
  response is marshalled directly; for example, to reference a specific field
  of output data, use `field_selector = ["data", "my_top_level_field"]`.

For example, to reference a login token in a subsequent call:

```hcl
initialize "example" {
  request "use-auth" {
    operation = "update"
    path = "sys/namespaces/ns1"
    token = {
      eval_type = "string"
      eval_source = "response"
      initialize_name = "authenticate"
      response_name = "admin-userpass"
      field_selector = ["auth", "client_token"]
    }
    data = {}
  }
}
