website/content/docs/concepts/storage.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Storage
description: >-
  OpenBao relies on external storage to save its durable information.
---

# Storage

As described on our [Architecture](../internals/architecture.mdx) page, OpenBao's
storage backend is untrusted storage used purely to keep encrypted information.

## Supported storage backends

Many other options for storage are available for OpenBao - see our
[Storage Configuration](../configuration/storage/index.mdx) section for more
information.

:::info

**Choosing a storage backend:** Refer to the [integrated Storage vs. external
storage](../configuration/storage/index.mdx#integrated-storage-vs-external-storage)
section of the storage configuration page to help make a decision about which
storage backend to use.

:::

## Backups

Due to the highly flexible nature of OpenBao's potential storage configurations,
providing exact guidance on backing up OpenBao is challenging.

When backing up OpenBao, there are two pieces to consider:

1. OpenBao's encrypted data in the storage backend
2. Configuration files and management scripts for running the OpenBao server

There's also a big question - what is the error case you're trying to guard
against by saving a backup?

### The big question - why take backups?

It's important to consider the question of "why take a backup" while developing
your ongoing backup and disaster recovery strategy.

Taking a backup is recommended prior to upgrades, as downgrading OpenBao storage
is not always possible. Generally, a backup is recommended any time a major
change is planned for a cluster.

More specifically, we recommend taking backups **before**, but not during, write
operations to the `/sys` API (excluding the `/sys/leases`, `/sys/namespaces`,
`/sys/tools`, `/sys/wrapping`, `/sys/policies`, and `/sys/pprof` endpoints).
Some examples of workflows that write to the `/sys` API are upgrades and rotations.
In the future, this guidance may change for the Integrated Storage backend.

Backups _can_ also help with accidental data deletions or modifications. In
this case, the story can get a little tricky. If you simply recover a backup
from 5AM with the correct data, but the current time is 10AM, you will lose data
written between 5 and 10AM. Lucy Davinhart gave a HashiConf talk that serves as
an interesting [case
study](https://www.hashicorp.com/resources/oh-no-i-deleted-my-vault-secret).

We do not recommend backups as protection against the failure of an individual
machine. OpenBao servers can run in clusters, so to protect against server
failure, we recommend running OpenBao in [HA
mode](../internals/high-availability.mdx). An  OpenBao cluster can extend
across multiple availability zones within a region.

When using OpenBao in [HA Mode](../internals/high-availability.mdx), a
backup can help guard against the failure of a data center.

Ultimately, backups are not a replacement for running in HA. As you develop a
plan for recovering from or guarding against failure, you should consider both
backups and HA as critical components of that plan.

### Backing up OpenBao's persisted data

Backups and restores are ideally performed while OpenBao is offline. If offline
backups are not feasible, we recommend using a storage backend that supports
atomic snapshots (such as [Integrated
Storage](../commands/operator/raft.mdx#snapshot)).

:::warning

If your storage backend does not support atomic snapshots, we recommend only
taking offline backups.

:::

To perform a backup or restore of OpenBao's encrypted data when using an
officially supported storage backend, see the instructions linked below. For
other storage backends, follow the documentation of that backend for taking and
restoring backups.

- Integrated Storage [snapshots](../commands/operator/raft.mdx#snapshot)

### Configuration

In addition to backing up OpenBao's encrypted data via the storage backend, you
may also wish to save the server configuration files, any scripts for managing
the OpenBao service, and ensure you can reinstall any user-installed plugins. The
location of these files will be specific to your installation of OpenBao.

**NOTE**: Although a backup or snapshot of OpenBao's data from the storage
backend is encrypted, some of your configuration may be sensitive (an OpenBao token
for Transit Autounseal or a TLS private key in your configuration, for example).
The presence of this information in your backups will mean that they may need
to be carefully protected.

Commit message:

docs: add snapshot automation (#2264)
* docs: add snapshot automation

Signed-off-by: Yannis Rachdi <yannis.rachdi@secretz.io>

* wording; wrap text to 80 col

Signed-off-by: Yannis Rachdi <yannis.rachdi@secretz.io>

* text wrapping

Signed-off-by: Yannis Rachdi <yannis.rachdi@secretz.io>

---------

Signed-off-by: Yannis Rachdi <yannis.rachdi@secretz.io>

website/content/docs/concepts/storage.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Storage
description: >-
  OpenBao relies on external storage to save its durable information.
---

# Storage

As described on our [Architecture](../internals/architecture.mdx) page, OpenBao's
storage backend is untrusted storage used purely to keep encrypted information.

## Supported storage backends

Many other options for storage are available for OpenBao - see our
[Storage Configuration](../configuration/storage/index.mdx) section for more
information.

:::info

**Choosing a storage backend:** Refer to the [integrated Storage vs. external
storage](../configuration/storage/index.mdx#integrated-storage-vs-external-storage)
section of the storage configuration page to help make a decision about which
storage backend to use.

:::

## Backups

Due to the highly flexible nature of OpenBao's potential storage configurations,
providing exact guidance on backing up OpenBao is challenging.

When backing up OpenBao, there are two pieces to consider:

1. OpenBao's encrypted data in the storage backend
2. Configuration files and management scripts for running the OpenBao server

There's also a big question - what is the error case you're trying to guard
against by saving a backup?

### The big question - why take backups?

It's important to consider the question of "why take a backup" while developing
your ongoing backup and disaster recovery strategy.

Taking a backup is recommended prior to upgrades, as downgrading OpenBao storage
is not always possible. Generally, a backup is recommended any time a major
change is planned for a cluster.

More specifically, we recommend taking backups **before**, but not during, write
operations to the `/sys` API (excluding the `/sys/leases`, `/sys/namespaces`,
`/sys/tools`, `/sys/wrapping`, `/sys/policies`, and `/sys/pprof` endpoints).
Some examples of workflows that write to the `/sys` API are upgrades and rotations.
In the future, this guidance may change for the Integrated Storage backend.

Backups _can_ also help with accidental data deletions or modifications. In
this case, the story can get a little tricky. If you simply recover a backup
from 5AM with the correct data, but the current time is 10AM, you will lose data
written between 5 and 10AM. Lucy Davinhart gave a HashiConf talk that serves as
an interesting [case
study](https://www.hashicorp.com/resources/oh-no-i-deleted-my-vault-secret).

We do not recommend backups as protection against the failure of an individual
machine. OpenBao servers can run in clusters, so to protect against server
failure, we recommend running OpenBao in [HA
mode](../internals/high-availability.mdx). An  OpenBao cluster can extend
across multiple availability zones within a region.

When using OpenBao in [HA Mode](../internals/high-availability.mdx), a
backup can help guard against the failure of a data center.

Ultimately, backups are not a replacement for running in HA. As you develop a
plan for recovering from or guarding against failure, you should consider both
backups and HA as critical components of that plan.

### Backing up OpenBao's persisted data

Backups and restores are ideally performed while OpenBao is offline. If offline
backups are not feasible, we recommend using a storage backend that supports
atomic snapshots (such as [Integrated
Storage](../commands/operator/raft.mdx#snapshot)).

:::warning

If your storage backend does not support atomic snapshots, we recommend only
taking offline backups.

:::

To perform a backup or restore of OpenBao's encrypted data when using an
officially supported storage backend, see the instructions linked below. For
other storage backends, follow the documentation of that backend for taking and
restoring backups.

- Integrated Storage [snapshots](../commands/operator/raft.mdx#snapshot)

#### Automated Snapshot

There is currently no built-in support for automated snapshots. However, OpenBao
snapshots can be automated in various ways such as using a cron job.

We maintain [a repository](https://github.com/openbao/openbao-snapshot-agent) 
containing a collection of external tools and instructions for automating snapshots. 

Currently for [VMs, we rely on systemd unit 
files](https://github.com/openbao/openbao-snapshot-agent/blob/main/docs/vm-configuration.md) 
and cronjobs while for [Kubernetes we provide a container image and CronJob
resource](https://github.com/openbao/openbao-snapshot-agent/blob/main/docs/k8s-configuration.md).
The Kubernetes CronJob can also be configured and deployed via the [OpenBao Helm
chart](https://github.com/openbao/openbao-helm).

### Configuration

In addition to backing up OpenBao's encrypted data via the storage backend, you
may also wish to save the server configuration files, any scripts for managing
the OpenBao service, and ensure you can reinstall any user-installed plugins. The
location of these files will be specific to your installation of OpenBao.

**NOTE**: Although a backup or snapshot of OpenBao's data from the storage
backend is encrypted, some of your configuration may be sensitive (an OpenBao token
for Transit Autounseal or a TLS private key in your configuration, for example).
The presence of this information in your backups will mean that they may need
to be carefully protected.
