website/content/docs/commands/secrets/move.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: move
description: |-
  The "secrets move" command moves an existing secrets engine to a new path. All
  leases from the old secrets engine are revoked, but all configurations
  associated with the engine are preserved.
---

# secrets move

The `secrets move` command moves an existing secrets engine to a new path. Any
leases from the old secrets engine are revoked, but all configuration associated
with the engine is preserved. The command can be issued for a move within or across
namespaces, using namespace prefixes in the arguments.

The command will trigger a remount operation and uses the returned migration ID to poll the 
status of the operation until a terminal state of `success` or `failure` is reached.

**Moving an existing secrets engine will revoke any leases from the old
engine.**

## Examples

Move the existing secrets engine at ns1/secret/ to ns2/kv/:

```shell-session
$ bao secrets move ns1/secret/ ns2/kv/
```

## Usage

There are no flags beyond the [standard set of flags](/docs/commands)
included on all commands.

Commit message:

docs: add warning to mount and auth move
Signed-off-by: Philipp Stehle <philipp.stehle@secretz.io>

website/content/docs/commands/secrets/move.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: move
description: |-
  The "secrets move" command moves an existing secrets engine to a new path. All
  leases from the old secrets engine are revoked, but all configurations
  associated with the engine are preserved.
---

# secrets move

The `secrets move` command moves an existing secrets engine to a new path. Any
leases from the old secrets engine are revoked, but all configuration associated
with the engine is preserved. The command can be issued for a move within or
across namespaces, using namespace prefixes in the arguments.

The command will trigger a remount operation and uses the returned migration ID
to poll the status of the operation until a terminal state of `success` or
`failure` is reached.

:::warning

Moving an existing secrets engine will revoke any leases from the old engine.

:::

:::warning

Before moving an engine to a new path, one should ensure it is currently not
actively used. Using an engine while it's being moved will lead to inconsistent
reads on standby nodes.

:::

## Examples

Move the existing secrets engine at ns1/secret/ to ns2/kv/:

```shell-session
$ bao secrets move ns1/secret/ ns2/kv/
```

## Usage

There are no flags beyond the [standard set of flags](/docs/commands)
included on all commands.
