website/content/docs/configuration/seal/pkcs11.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: PKCS#11 Unseal
description: |-
  The PKCS11 seal configures OpenBao to use an HSM with PKCS11 as the
  autounseal mechanism.
---
# `pkcs11` seal

The PKCS11 seal configures OpenBao to use an HSM with PKCS11 as the autounseal
mechanism. OpenBao's HSM PKCS11 support is activated by one of the following:

- The presence of a `seal "pkcs11"` block in OpenBao's configuration file
- The presence of the environment variable `BAO_HSM_LIB` set to the library's
  path as well as `BAO_SEAL_TYPE` set to `pkcs11`. If enabling via environment
  variable, all other required values (i.e. `BAO_HSM_SLOT`) must be also
  supplied.

:::info

Unlike Vault Enterprise, OpenBao requires key material to be created externally
before initializing the instance. OpenBao will not attempt to create its own
key material.

:::

:::warning

Because PKCS#11 auto-unseal was not present in Vault v1.14 OSS, it is not
expected that it is [seal-compatible](/docs/policies/migration/); manual
migration of data between nodes may be required.

:::

## Requirements

The following software packages are required for OpenBao:

- PKCS#11 compatible HSM integration library.
- The cgo-enabled OpenBao binary for your architecture, complete with relevant
  dynamic libraries such as `glibc`.

## `pkcs11` example

This example shows configuring HSM PKCS11 seal through the OpenBao configuration
file by providing all the required values:

```hcl
seal "pkcs11" {
  lib = "/usr/lib64/softhsm/libsofthsm.so"
  token_label = "OpenBao"
  pin = "4321"
  key_label = "bao-root-key-rsa"
  rsa_oaep_hash = "sha1"
}
```

To create the key in the HSM, use a utility like `pkcs11-tool`:

```bash
# Example RSA key with 4096 bits
$ pkcs11-tool --module "/usr/lib64/softhsm/libsofthsm.so" --token-label "OpenBao" --so-pin 1234 --pin 4321 --keypairgen --key-type rsa:4096 --label "bao-root-key-rsa"

# Example AES key with 256 bits (32 bytes)
$ pkcs11-tool --module "/usr/lib64/softhsm/libsofthsm.so" --token-label "OpenBao" --so-pin 1234 --pin 4321 --keygen --key-type aes:32 --label "bao-root-key-aes"
```

## `pkcs11` parameters

These parameters apply to the `seal` stanza in the OpenBao configuration file:

- `lib` `(string: <required>)`: The path to the PKCS#11 library shared object
  file. May also be specified by the `BAO_HSM_LIB` environment variable.

:::info

Depending on your HSM, the value of the `lib` parameter may be
either a binary or a dynamic library, and its use may require other libraries
depending on which system the OpenBao binary is currently running on (e.g.: a
Linux system may require other libraries to interpret Windows .dll files).

:::

- `slot` `(string: <slot or token label required>)`: The slot number to use,
  specified as a string (e.g. `"2305843009213693953"`). May also be specified by
  the `BAO_HSM_SLOT` environment variable.

:::info

Slots are typically listed as hex-decimal values in the OS setup
utility but this configuration uses their decimal equivalent. For example, using the
HSM command-line `pkcs11-tool`, a slot listed as `0x2000000000000001`in hex is equal
to `2305843009213693953` in decimal; these values may be listed shorter or
differently as determined by the HSM in use.

:::

- `token_label` `(string: <slot or token label required>)`: The slot token label to
  use. May also be specified by the `BAO_HSM_TOKEN_LABEL` environment variable.

- `pin` `(string: <required>)`: The PIN for login. May also be specified by the
  `BAO_HSM_PIN` environment variable. _If set via the environment variable,
  it will need to be re-set if OpenBao is restarted._

- `key_label` `(string: <required>)`: The label of the key to use. May also be specified by the `BAO_HSM_KEY_LABEL`
  environment variable.

- `default_key_label` `(string: "")`: This is the default key label for decryption
  operations. Prior to 0.10.1, key labels were not stored with the ciphertext.
  Seal entries now track the label used in encryption operations. The default value
  for this field is the `key_label`. If `key_label` is rotated and this value is not
  set, decryption may fail. May also be specified by the `BAO_HSM_DEFAULT_KEY_LABEL`
  environment variable. This value is ignored in new installations.

- `key_id` `(string: "")`: The ID of the key to use. The value should be a hexadecimal
  string (e.g., "0x33333435363434373537"). May also be specified by the
  `BAO_HSM_KEY_ID` environment variable.

- `mechanism` `(string: <best available>)`: The encryption/decryption mechanism to use,
  specified as a decimal or hexadecimal (prefixed by `0x`) string. May also be
  specified by the `BAO_HSM_MECHANISM` environment variable.
  Currently supported mechanisms (in order of precedence):

  - `0x1087` `CKM_AES_GCM`
  - `0x0009` `CKM_RSA_PKCS_OAEP`

:::warning

Unlike Vault Enterprise, OpenBao only supports AEAD-enabled algorithms and
will not support Encrypt-Then-MAC constructs (like `CKM_AES_CBC_PAD` with
explicit HMACing).

:::

- `disabled` `(string: "")`: Set this to `true` if OpenBao is migrating from an auto seal configuration. Otherwise, set to `false`.

Refer to the [Seal Migration](/docs/concepts/seal#seal-migration) documentation for more information about the seal migration process.
  
### Mechanism specific flags

- `rsa_oaep_hash` `(string: "sha256")`: Specify the hash algorithm to use for RSA
  with OAEP padding. Valid values are sha1, sha224, sha256, sha384, and sha512.
  Available for mechanism `CKM_RSA_PKCS_OAEP`. May also be specified by the
  `BAO_HSM_RSA_OAEP_HASH` environment variable.

## `pkcs11` environment variables

Alternatively, the HSM seal can be activated by providing the following
environment variables:

```text
BAO_SEAL_TYPE
BAO_HSM_LIB
BAO_HSM_SLOT
BAO_HSM_TOKEN_LABEL
BAO_HSM_PIN
BAO_HSM_KEY_LABEL
BAO_HSM_DEFAULT_KEY_LABEL
BAO_HSM_KEY_ID
BAO_HSM_MECHANISM
BAO_HSM_RSA_OAEP_HASH
```

## Key rotation

This seal supports rotating keys by using different key labels to track key versions. To rotate
the key value, generate a new key in a different key label in the HSM and update OpenBao's
configuration with the new key label value. Restart your OpenBao instance to pick up the new key
label and all new encryption operations will use the updated key label. Old keys must not be disabled
or deleted and are used to decrypt older data.

## Tested HSM Vendors and Models

| Vendor       | Model      | Unsealing | Installation Guide                                         |
| ------------ | ---------- | --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Securosys SA | Primus HSM | Yes       | [Installation Guide](/docs/guides/unseal/pkcs11/securosys) |

Commit message:

Update PKCS#11 seal docs
- Remove old `default_key_label` option, this never existed in OpenBao
- Clarify that `mechanism` can also be a named mechanism
- Document new `disable_software_encryption` option (see
  https://github.com/openbao/go-kms-wrapping/pull/41)

Signed-off-by: Jonas Köhnen <jonas.koehnen@sap.com>

website/content/docs/configuration/seal/pkcs11.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: PKCS#11 Unseal
description: |-
  The PKCS11 seal configures OpenBao to use an HSM with PKCS11 as the
  autounseal mechanism.
---
# `pkcs11` seal

The PKCS11 seal configures OpenBao to use an HSM with PKCS11 as the autounseal
mechanism. OpenBao's HSM PKCS11 support is activated by one of the following:

- The presence of a `seal "pkcs11"` block in OpenBao's configuration file
- The presence of the environment variable `BAO_HSM_LIB` set to the library's
  path as well as `BAO_SEAL_TYPE` set to `pkcs11`. If enabling via environment
  variable, all other required values (i.e. `BAO_HSM_SLOT`) must be also
  supplied.

:::info

Unlike Vault Enterprise, OpenBao requires key material to be created externally
before initializing the instance. OpenBao will not attempt to create its own
key material.

:::

:::warning

Because PKCS#11 auto-unseal was not present in Vault v1.14 OSS, it is not
expected that it is [seal-compatible](/docs/policies/migration/); manual
migration of data between nodes may be required.

:::

## Requirements

The following software packages are required for OpenBao:

- PKCS#11 compatible HSM integration library.
- The cgo-enabled OpenBao binary for your architecture, complete with relevant
  dynamic libraries such as `glibc`.

## `pkcs11` example

This example shows configuring HSM PKCS11 seal through the OpenBao configuration
file by providing all the required values:

```hcl
seal "pkcs11" {
  lib = "/usr/lib64/softhsm/libsofthsm.so"
  token_label = "OpenBao"
  pin = "4321"
  key_label = "bao-root-key-rsa"
  rsa_oaep_hash = "sha1"
}
```

To create the key in the HSM, use a utility like `pkcs11-tool`:

```bash
# Example RSA key with 4096 bits
$ pkcs11-tool --module "/usr/lib64/softhsm/libsofthsm.so" --token-label "OpenBao" --so-pin 1234 --pin 4321 --keypairgen --key-type rsa:4096 --label "bao-root-key-rsa"

# Example AES key with 256 bits (32 bytes)
$ pkcs11-tool --module "/usr/lib64/softhsm/libsofthsm.so" --token-label "OpenBao" --so-pin 1234 --pin 4321 --keygen --key-type aes:32 --label "bao-root-key-aes"
```

## `pkcs11` parameters

These parameters apply to the `seal` stanza in the OpenBao configuration file:

- `lib` `(string: <required>)`: The path to the PKCS#11 library shared object
  file. May also be specified by the `BAO_HSM_LIB` environment variable.

:::info

Depending on your HSM, the value of the `lib` parameter may be
either a binary or a dynamic library, and its use may require other libraries
depending on which system the OpenBao binary is currently running on (e.g.: a
Linux system may require other libraries to interpret Windows .dll files).

:::

- `slot` `(string: <slot or token label required>)`: The slot number to use,
  specified as a string (e.g. `"2305843009213693953"`). May also be specified by
  the `BAO_HSM_SLOT` environment variable.

:::info

Slots are typically listed as hex-decimal values in the OS setup
utility but this configuration uses their decimal equivalent. For example, using the
HSM command-line `pkcs11-tool`, a slot listed as `0x2000000000000001`in hex is equal
to `2305843009213693953` in decimal; these values may be listed shorter or
differently as determined by the HSM in use.

:::

- `token_label` `(string: <slot or token label required>)`: The slot token label to
  use. May also be specified by the `BAO_HSM_TOKEN_LABEL` environment variable.

- `pin` `(string: <required>)`: The PIN for login. May also be specified by the
  `BAO_HSM_PIN` environment variable. _If set via the environment variable,
  it will need to be re-set if OpenBao is restarted._

- `key_label` `(string: <required>)`: The label of the key to use. May also be specified by the `BAO_HSM_KEY_LABEL`
  environment variable.

- `key_id` `(string: "")`: The ID of the key to use. The value should be a hexadecimal
  string (e.g., "0x33333435363434373537"). May also be specified by the
  `BAO_HSM_KEY_ID` environment variable.

- `mechanism` `(string: <best available>)`: The encryption/decryption mechanism
  to use, specified either by name, or by decimal or hexadecimal (prefixed by
  `0x`) string. May also be specified by the `BAO_HSM_MECHANISM` environment
  variable. Currently supported mechanisms (in order of precedence):

  - Names: `AES_GCM`, `CKM_AES_GCM`, Hexadecimal: `0x1087`
  - Names: `RSA_PKCS_OAEP`, `CKM_RSA_PKCS_OAEP`, Hexadecimal: `0x0009`

- `disable_software_encryption` `(bool: false)`: For RSA-based mechanisms,
  OpenBao performs the encryption operation locally in memory by exporting the
  public key from the HSM. Set this option to `true` to force calling out to the
  HSM for all encryption operations. This option is available starting with
  OpenBao v2.4.0. All prior versions always call out to the HSM for encryption
  and never perform encryption in software.

:::warning

Unlike Vault Enterprise, OpenBao only supports AEAD-enabled algorithms and
will not support Encrypt-Then-MAC constructs (like `CKM_AES_CBC_PAD` with
explicit HMACing).

:::

- `disabled` `(string: "")`: Set this to `true` if OpenBao is migrating from an auto seal configuration. Otherwise, set to `false`.

Refer to the [Seal Migration](/docs/concepts/seal#seal-migration) documentation for more information about the seal migration process.

### Mechanism specific flags

- `rsa_oaep_hash` `(string: "sha256")`: Specify the hash algorithm to use for RSA
  with OAEP padding. Valid values are sha1, sha224, sha256, sha384, and sha512.
  Available for mechanism `CKM_RSA_PKCS_OAEP`. May also be specified by the
  `BAO_HSM_RSA_OAEP_HASH` environment variable.

## `pkcs11` environment variables

Alternatively, the HSM seal can be activated by providing the following
environment variables:

```text
BAO_SEAL_TYPE
BAO_HSM_LIB
BAO_HSM_SLOT
BAO_HSM_TOKEN_LABEL
BAO_HSM_PIN
BAO_HSM_KEY_LABEL
BAO_HSM_KEY_ID
BAO_HSM_MECHANISM
BAO_HSM_RSA_OAEP_HASH
```

## Key rotation

This seal supports rotating keys by using different key labels to track key versions. To rotate
the key value, generate a new key in a different key label in the HSM and update OpenBao's
configuration with the new key label value. Restart your OpenBao instance to pick up the new key
label and all new encryption operations will use the updated key label. Old keys must not be disabled
or deleted and are used to decrypt older data.

## Tested HSM Vendors and Models

| Vendor       | Model      | Unsealing | Installation Guide                                         |
| ------------ | ---------- | --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Securosys SA | Primus HSM | Yes       | [Installation Guide](/docs/guides/unseal/pkcs11/securosys) |
