website/content/docs/commands/auth/move.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: move
description: |-
  The "auth move" command moves an existing auth method to a new path. All
  tokens from the old auth method are revoked, but all configurations
  associated with the engine are preserved.
---

# auth move

The `auth move` command moves an existing auth method to a new path. Any
leases from the old auth method are revoked, but all configuration associated
with the engine is preserved. The command can be issued for a move within or across
namespaces, using namespace prefixes in the arguments.

The command will trigger a remount operation and uses the returned migration ID to poll the 
status of the operation until a terminal state of `success` or `failure` is reached.

**Moving an existing auth method will revoke any leases from the old
method.**

## Examples

Move the existing auth method at ns1/approle/ to ns2/new-approle/:

```shell-session
$ bao auth move ns1/auth/approle/ ns2/auth/new-approle/
```

## Usage

There are no flags beyond the [standard set of flags](/docs/commands)
included on all commands.

Commit message:

docs: add warning to mount and auth move
Signed-off-by: Philipp Stehle <philipp.stehle@secretz.io>

website/content/docs/commands/auth/move.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: move
description: |-
  The "auth move" command moves an existing auth method to a new path. All
  tokens from the old auth method are revoked, but all configurations
  associated with the engine are preserved.
---

# auth move

The `auth move` command moves an existing auth method to a new path. Any leases
from the old auth method are revoked, but all configuration associated with the
engine is preserved. The command can be issued for a move within or across
namespaces, using namespace prefixes in the arguments.

The command will trigger a remount operation and uses the returned migration ID
to poll the status of the operation until a terminal state of `success` or
`failure` is reached.

:::warning

Moving an existing auth method will revoke any leases from the old method.

:::

:::warning

Before moving an auth method to a new path, one should ensure it is currently
not actively used. Using an auth method while it's being moved will lead to
inconsistent reads on standby nodes.

:::

## Examples

Move the existing auth method at ns1/approle/ to ns2/new-approle/:

```shell-session
$ bao auth move ns1/auth/approle/ ns2/auth/new-approle/
```

## Usage

There are no flags beyond the [standard set of flags](/docs/commands)
included on all commands.
