website/content/docs/configuration/listener/shared.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Shared Listener Config
description: |-
  Shared config options for every listener type.
---

# Shared listener parameters

There is config that is common between all listeners.

## Client certificate header parameters

- `x_forwarded_for_client_cert_header` `(string: "")` -
  Specifies the header to be used for client certificate authentication. This is required
  if [Client Certificate Auth](../../auth/cert.mdx) is used and your server is behind a reverse
  proxy. It is recommended to have this set to the canonical `Client-Cert` header as defined in
  [RFC 9440](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9440.html). The header value should result in
  base64 encoded DER at the end of processing.

  :::warning

  **Warning**: This should be used with `x_forwarded_for_authorized_addrs` set and
  `x_forwarded_for_reject_not_present` and `x_forwarded_for_reject_not_authorized`
  set to true if using the [`tcp`][tcp-listener] listener. Otherwise, if a direct request is made,
  a public cert could be used without proper validation of the connection.
  :::

- `x_forwarded_for_client_cert_decoders` `(string array: [])` -
  List of processors to handle `x_forwarded_for_client_cert_header`
  These are processed in the order of the array.

  Available values are
  - URL - Urldecode the supplied value
  - PEM - Convert a PEM certificate to base64 encoded DER
  - RFC9440 - Use base64 encoded DER as defined in [RFC 9440 2.1][RFC 9440 2.1]

  The result of this processing should end up with a base64 encoded DER certificate.
  If the header value is already base64 encoded DER then no value needs to be set.

  :::info

  **Note:** this implementation is not 1:1 compatible with upstream. The PEM encoder
  is called DER in upstream. This was changed to avoid confusion and to keep it in line
  with the other decoder names. Also, this was changed from a comma seperated string to a full
  list to allow easier implementation.

  :::

### Example configs

#### NGINX

OpenBao config
```hcl
listener "tcp" {
  address = "127.0.0.1:8200"
  x_forwarded_for_authorized_addrs = "127.0.0.1"
  x_forwarded_for_reject_not_authorized = true
  x_forwarded_for_reject_not_present = true
  x_forwarded_for_client_cert_header = "Client-Cert"
  x_forwarded_for_client_cert_decoders = ["URL", "PEM"]
}
```

NGINX config snippet
```
location / {
    ...
    proxy_set_header X-Real-IP         $remote_addr;
    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For   $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
    proxy_set_header Client-Cert       $ssl_client_escaped_cert;
    ...
}
```



[RFC 9440 2.1]: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9440.html#section-2.1
[tcp-listener]: tcp.mdx/#tcp-listener-parameters

Commit message:

Refactor cert handling into logical.Connection
By using certificates directly stored on logical.Connection, we can
eventually add support for proxying these over the GRPC connection,
enabling external certificate auth plugins. These plugins would trust
that OpenBao terminated TLS correctly (and/or processed the proxy
forwarded certificates correctly).

This also lets us eventually use the same logic for certificate chains
as for proxied single leaf certificates and greatly simplifies the
testing.

We also default to removing headers if not on forwarded requests or if
the forwarding node is not IP address authorized; both of these are
separately controlled allowing granular control.

Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

website/content/docs/configuration/listener/shared.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Shared Listener Config
description: |-
  Shared config options for every listener type.
---

# Shared listener parameters

There is config that is common between all listeners.

## Client certificate header parameters

- `x_forwarded_for_client_cert_header` `(string: "")` -
  Specifies the header to be used for client certificate authentication. This is required
  if [Client Certificate Auth](../../auth/cert.mdx) is used and your server is behind a reverse
  proxy. It is recommended to have this set to the canonical `Client-Cert` header as defined in
  [RFC 9440](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9440.html). The header value should result in
  base64 encoded DER at the end of processing.

  :::warning

  **Warning**: This should be used with `x_forwarded_for_authorized_addrs` set and
  `x_forwarded_for_reject_not_present` and `x_forwarded_for_reject_not_authorized`
  set to true if using the [`tcp`][tcp-listener] listener. Otherwise, if a direct request is made,
  a public cert could be used without proper validation of the connection.
  :::

- `x_forwarded_for_client_cert_decoders` `(string array: [])` -
  List of processors to handle `x_forwarded_for_client_cert_header`
  These are processed in the order of the array.

  Available values are
  - URL - Urldecode the supplied value
  - PEM - Convert a PEM certificate to base64 encoded DER
  - RFC9440 - Use base64 encoded DER as defined in [RFC 9440 2.1][RFC 9440 2.1]

  The result of this processing should end up with a base64 encoded DER certificate.
  If the header value is already base64 encoded DER then no value needs to be set.

  :::info

  **Note:** this implementation is not 1:1 compatible with upstream. The PEM encoder
  is called DER in upstream. This was changed to avoid confusion and to keep it in line
  with the other decoder names. Also, this was changed from a comma seperated string to a full
  list to allow easier implementation.

  :::

- `x_forwarded_for_client_cert_keep_not_forwarded` `(bool: false)` - allows
  keeping headers on non-forwarded requests. This is dangerous to enable as
  it means arbitrary clients can set these values.

- `x_forwarded_for_client_cert_keep_unauthorized` `(bool: false)` - allows
  keeping headers on non-forwarded requests. This is dangerous to enable as
  it means that clients connected to unauthorized forwarders (or, directly
  to OpenBao) could set these headers.

### Example configs

#### NGINX

OpenBao config
```hcl
listener "tcp" {
  address = "127.0.0.1:8200"
  x_forwarded_for_authorized_addrs = "127.0.0.1"
  x_forwarded_for_reject_not_authorized = true
  x_forwarded_for_reject_not_present = true
  x_forwarded_for_client_cert_header = "Client-Cert"
  x_forwarded_for_client_cert_decoders = ["URL", "PEM"]
}
```

NGINX config snippet
```
location / {
    ...
    proxy_set_header X-Real-IP         $remote_addr;
    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For   $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
    proxy_set_header Client-Cert       $ssl_client_escaped_cert;
    ...
}
```



[RFC 9440 2.1]: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9440.html#section-2.1
[tcp-listener]: tcp.mdx#tcp-listener-parameters
