website/content/docs/configuration/listener/unix.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Unix
description: |-
  The Unix listener configures OpenBao to listen on the specified Unix domain socket.
---

# `unix` listener

The Unix listener configures OpenBao to listen on the specified Unix domain socket.

```hcl
listener "unix" {
  address = "/run/openbao.sock"
}
```

The `listener` stanza may be specified more than once to make OpenBao listen on
multiple sockets.

## `unix` listener parameters
- `address` `(string: "/run/openbao.sock", <required>)` – Specifies the address to bind the Unix socket.

- `socket_mode` `(string: "", <optional>)` – Changes the access
  permissions and the special mode flags of the Unix socket.

- `socket_user` `(string: "", <optional>)` – Changes the user owner of the Unix socket.

- `socket_group` `(string: "", <optional>)` – Changes the group owner of the Unix socket.

- `disable_unauthed_rekey_endpoints` `(bool: false)` - Whether to disable requests to the
  legacy unauthenticated rekey endpoints (under `/sys/rekey/*` and
  `/sys/rekey-recovery-key/*`). These are a security risk to leave exposed on
  public listeners.

### `telemetry` parameters

- `unauthenticated_metrics_access` `(bool: false)` - If set to true, allows
  unauthenticated access to the `/v1/sys/metrics` endpoint.

- `disallow_metrics` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if the `/v1/sys/metrics` endpoint is disabled on this listener. 
  This is useful for hardening a listener that handles general client traffic, preventing API clients from scraping metrics.

- `metrics_only` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if the listener should *only* serve the `/v1/sys/metrics` endpoint, blocking all other API requests. 
  This is useful for creating a dedicated, secure listener for monitoring systems.

  :::warning

  In OpenBao v2.4.0, this parameter will default to true, forbidding any calls
  to the unauthenticated rekey endpoints. This will be a breaking change.

  :::

## `unix` listener examples

### Listening on multiple sockets

This example shows OpenBao listening on a specified socket, as well as the default.

```hcl
listener "unix" {}

listener "unix" {
  address = "/var/run/openbao.sock"
}
```

### Listening on multiple interfaces

This example shows OpenBao listening on TCP localhost, as well as Unix socket.

```hcl
listener "unix" {
  address = "/var/run/openbao.sock"
}

listener "tcp" {
  address = "127.0.0.1:8200"
}
```

### Configuring permissions
This example shows changing access permissions and ownership of the Unix socket.
```hcl
listener "unix" {
  address = "/var/run/openbao.sock"
  socket_mode = "644"
  socket_user = "1000"
  socket_group = "1000"
}
```

### Configuring Metrics Security and Access

This example configures two UNIX socket listeners to separate API traffic from metrics monitoring. 
Access to these sockets is controlled by file system permissions. 
The first socket handles API requests with metrics disabled, 
while a second socket is dedicated only to serving metrics for monitoring tools.

```hcl
# Primary listener for general API traffic via a UNIX socket
# Metrics are disabled for security.
listener "unix" {
  path        = "/var/run/openbao.sock"
  socket_mode = "0660"
  telemetry {
    disallow_metrics = true
  }
}

# Dedicated listener for monitoring systems (e.g., Prometheus)
# Only serves metrics and blocks all other requests.
listener "unix" {
  path        = "/var/run/openbao-metrics.sock"
  socket_mode = "0660"
  telemetry {
    metrics_only = true
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Support custom metrics paths
In certain environments, utilities scraping metrics only respond on
standardized paths. In the OpenTelemetry world, /metrics is one such
common path. When we're on a metrics-only endpoint, allow rewriting the
/v1/sys/metrics path to a standardized variant to help operators in
these environments.

See also: https://docs.runway.gitlab.com/reference/observability/#cloud-run
See also: https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#scrape_config

Co-authored-by: Ken McDonald <kmcdonald@gitlab.com>
Signed-off-by: Alexander Scheel <ascheel@gitlab.com>

website/content/docs/configuration/listener/unix.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Unix
description: |-
  The Unix listener configures OpenBao to listen on the specified Unix domain socket.
---

# `unix` listener

The Unix listener configures OpenBao to listen on the specified Unix domain socket.

```hcl
listener "unix" {
  address = "/run/openbao.sock"
}
```

The `listener` stanza may be specified more than once to make OpenBao listen on
multiple sockets.

## `unix` listener parameters
- `address` `(string: "/run/openbao.sock", <required>)` – Specifies the address to bind the Unix socket.

- `socket_mode` `(string: "", <optional>)` – Changes the access
  permissions and the special mode flags of the Unix socket.

- `socket_user` `(string: "", <optional>)` – Changes the user owner of the Unix socket.

- `socket_group` `(string: "", <optional>)` – Changes the group owner of the Unix socket.

- `disable_unauthed_rekey_endpoints` `(bool: false)` - Whether to disable requests to the
  legacy unauthenticated rekey endpoints (under `/sys/rekey/*` and
  `/sys/rekey-recovery-key/*`). These are a security risk to leave exposed on
  public listeners.

   :::warning

   **In OpenBao v2.4.0, this parameter will default to true, forbidding any calls
to the unauthenticated rekey endpoints. This will be a breaking change.

   :::

### `telemetry` parameters

- `unauthenticated_metrics_access` `(bool: false)` - If set to true, allows
  unauthenticated access to the `/v1/sys/metrics` endpoint.

- `disallow_metrics` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if the `/v1/sys/metrics` endpoint is disabled on this listener. 
  This is useful for hardening a listener that handles general client traffic, preventing API clients from scraping metrics.

- `metrics_only` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if the listener should *only* serve the `/v1/sys/metrics` endpoint, blocking all other API requests. 
  This is useful for creating a dedicated, secure listener for monitoring systems.

- `metrics_path` `(string: "")` - If present, specifies an alternative path the metrics
  should be reported on. Only allowed in conjunction with `metrics_only=true`.

## `unix` listener examples

### Listening on multiple sockets

This example shows OpenBao listening on a specified socket, as well as the default.

```hcl
listener "unix" {}

listener "unix" {
  address = "/var/run/openbao.sock"
}
```

### Listening on multiple interfaces

This example shows OpenBao listening on TCP localhost, as well as Unix socket.

```hcl
listener "unix" {
  address = "/var/run/openbao.sock"
}

listener "tcp" {
  address = "127.0.0.1:8200"
}
```

### Configuring permissions
This example shows changing access permissions and ownership of the Unix socket.
```hcl
listener "unix" {
  address = "/var/run/openbao.sock"
  socket_mode = "644"
  socket_user = "1000"
  socket_group = "1000"
}
```

### Configuring Metrics Security and Access

This example configures two UNIX socket listeners to separate API traffic from metrics monitoring. 
Access to these sockets is controlled by file system permissions. 
The first socket handles API requests with metrics disabled, 
while a second socket is dedicated only to serving metrics for monitoring tools.

```hcl
# Primary listener for general API traffic via a UNIX socket
# Metrics are disabled for security.
listener "unix" {
  path        = "/var/run/openbao.sock"
  socket_mode = "0660"
  telemetry {
    disallow_metrics = true
  }
}

# Dedicated listener for monitoring systems (e.g., Prometheus)
# Only serves metrics and blocks all other requests.
listener "unix" {
  path        = "/var/run/openbao-metrics.sock"
  socket_mode = "0660"
  telemetry {
    metrics_only = true
  }
}
```
