website/content/docs/configuration/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
description: OpenBao server configuration reference.
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# OpenBao configuration

Outside of development mode, OpenBao servers are configured using a file.
The format of this file is [HCL](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl) or JSON;
it may also be a directory of configuration files; all files which end in
`.hcl` or `.json` are loaded in alphabetical order; if duplicate content is
present across multiple configuration files and the type of the top-level entry
is not a list, the last present option wins. Otherwise, list types like
listeners, of which multiple may be present, are appended to the config.

@include 'plugin-file-permissions-check.mdx'

An example configuration is shown below:

<Tabs groupId="config">
<TabItem value="JSON">

```json
{
  "ui": true,

  "cluster_addr": "https://127.0.0.1:8201",
  "api_addr":     "https://127.0.0.1:8200",

  "storage": {
    "raft": {
      "path": "data",
      "node_id": "raft_node_1"
    }
  },

  "listener": [
    {
      "tcp": {
        "address":       "127.0.0.1:8200",
        "tls_cert_file": "full-chain.pem",
        "tls_key_file":  "private-key.pem"
      }
    }
  ],

  "telemetry": {
    "statsite_address": "127.0.0.1:8125",
    "disable_hostname": true
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="HCL">

```hcl
ui            = true
cluster_addr  = "https://127.0.0.1:8201"
api_addr      = "https://127.0.0.1:8200"

storage "raft" {
  path = "/path/to/raft/data"
  node_id = "raft_node_1"
}

listener "tcp" {
  address       = "127.0.0.1:8200"
  tls_cert_file = "/path/to/full-chain.pem"
  tls_key_file  = "/path/to/private-key.pem"
}

telemetry {
  statsite_address = "127.0.0.1:8125"
  disable_hostname = true
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

After the configuration is written, use the `-config` flag with `bao server`
to specify where the configuration is.

## Parameters

- `storage` `([StorageBackend][storage-backend]: <required>)` –
  Configures the storage backend where OpenBao data is stored. Please see the
  [storage backends documentation][storage-backend] for the full list of
  available storage backends. Running OpenBao in HA mode would require
  coordination semantics to be supported by the backend. If the storage backend
  supports HA coordination, HA backend options can also be specified in this
  parameter block. If not, a separate `ha_storage` parameter should be
  configured with a backend that supports HA, along with corresponding HA
  options.

- `ha_storage` `([StorageBackend][storage-backend]: nil)` – Configures
  the storage backend where OpenBao HA coordination will take place. This must be
  an HA-supporting backend. If not set, HA will be attempted on the backend
  given in the `storage` parameter. This parameter is not required if the
  storage backend supports HA coordination and if HA specific options are
  already specified with `storage` parameter.

- `listener` `([Listener][listener]: <required>)` – Configures how
  OpenBao is listening for API requests.

- `user_lockout` `([UserLockout][user-lockout]: nil)` –
  Configures the user-lockout behaviour for failed logins. For more information, please see the
  [user lockout configuration documentation](/docs/configuration/user-lockout). 

- `seal` `([Seal][seal]: nil)` – Configures the seal type to use for
  auto-unsealing, as well as for
  [seal wrapping][sealwrap] as an additional layer of data protection.

- `cluster_name` `(string: <generated>)` – Specifies the identifier for the
  OpenBao cluster. If omitted, OpenBao will generate a value.

- `cache_size` `(string: "131072")` – Specifies the size of the read cache used
  by the physical storage subsystem. The value is in number of entries, so the
  total cache size depends on the size of stored entries.

- `disable_cache` `(bool: false)` – Disables all caches within OpenBao, including
  the read cache used by the physical storage subsystem. This will very
  significantly impact performance.

- `initialize` `([Initialize][initialize]: <none>)` – Specifies one-time
  declarative self-initialization.

- `plugin_directory` `(string: "")` – A directory from which plugins are
  allowed to be loaded. OpenBao must have permission to read files in this
  directory to successfully load plugins, and the value cannot be a symbolic link.

  @include 'plugin-file-permissions-check.mdx'

- `plugin_file_uid` `(integer: 0)` – Uid of the plugin directories and plugin binaries if they
  are owned by an user other than the user running OpenBao. This only needs to be set if the
  file permissions check is enabled via the environment variable `VAULT_ENABLE_FILE_PERMISSIONS_CHECK`.

- `plugin_file_permissions` `(string: "")` – Octal permission string of the plugin
  directories and plugin binaries if they have write or execute permissions for group or others.
  This only needs to be set if the file permissions check is enabled via the environment variable
  `VAULT_ENABLE_FILE_PERMISSIONS_CHECK`.

- `telemetry` `([Telemetry][telemetry]: <none>)` – Specifies the telemetry
  reporting system.

- `default_lease_ttl` `(string: "768h")` – Specifies the default lease duration
  for tokens and secrets. This is specified using a label suffix like `"30s"` or
  `"1h"`. This value cannot be larger than `max_lease_ttl`.

- `max_lease_ttl` `(string: "768h")` – Specifies the maximum possible lease
  duration for tokens and secrets. This is specified using a label
  suffix like `"30s"` or `"1h"`. Individual mounts can override this value
  by tuning the mount with the `max-lease-ttl` flag of the
  [auth](/docs/commands/auth/tune#max-lease-ttl) or
  [secret](/docs/commands/secrets/tune#max-lease-ttl) commands.

- `default_max_request_duration` `(string: "90s")` – Specifies the default
  maximum request duration allowed before OpenBao cancels the request. This can
  be overridden per listener via the `max_request_duration` value.

- `detect_deadlocks` `(string: "")` - A comma separated string that specifies the internal 
mutex locks that should be monitored for potential deadlocks. Currently supported values 
include `statelock`, `quotas` and `expiration` which will cause "POTENTIAL DEADLOCK:"
to be logged when an attempt at a core state lock appears to be deadlocked. Enabling this 
can have a negative effect on performance due to the tracking of each lock attempt.

- `raw_storage_endpoint` `(bool: false)` – Enables the `sys/raw` endpoint which
  allows the decryption/encryption of raw data into and out of the security
  barrier. This is a highly privileged endpoint.

- `introspection_endpoint` `(bool: false)` - Enables the `sys/internal/inspect` endpoint
  which allows users with a root token or sudo privileges to inspect certain subsystems inside OpenBao.

- `ui` `(bool: false)` – Enables the built-in web UI, which is available on all
  listeners (address + port) at the `/ui` path. Browsers accessing the standard
  OpenBao API address will automatically redirect there. This can also be provided
  via the environment variable `VAULT_UI`. For more information, please see the
  [ui configuration documentation](/docs/configuration/ui).

- `pid_file` `(string: "")` - Path to the file in which the OpenBao server's
  Process ID (PID) should be stored.

- `enable_response_header_hostname` `(bool: false)` - Enables the addition of an HTTP header
  in all of OpenBao's HTTP responses: `X-Vault-Hostname`. This will contain the
  host name of the OpenBao node that serviced the HTTP request. This information
  is best effort and is not guaranteed to be present. If this configuration
  option is enabled and the `X-Vault-Hostname` header is not present in a response,
  it means there was some kind of error retrieving the host name from the
  operating system.

- `enable_response_header_raft_node_id` `(bool: false)` - Enables the addition of an HTTP header
  in all of OpenBao's HTTP responses: `X-Vault-Raft-Node-ID`. If OpenBao is participating
  in a Raft cluster (i.e. using integrated Storage), this header will contain the
  Raft node ID of the OpenBao node that serviced the HTTP request. If OpenBao is not
  participating in a Raft cluster, this header will be omitted, whether this configuration
  option is enabled or not.

- `log_level` `(string: "info")` - Log verbosity level.
  Supported values (in order of descending detail) are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, and `error`.
  This can also be specified via the `BAO_LOG_LEVEL` environment variable.

:::warning

 Note: On SIGHUP (`sudo kill -s HUP` _pid of bao_), if a valid value is specified, OpenBao will update the existing log level,
  overriding (even if specified) both the CLI flag and environment variable.

:::

:::warning

 Note: Not all parts of OpenBao's logging can have its log level be changed dynamically this way; in particular,
  secrets/auth plugins are currently not updated dynamically.

:::

- `log_format` - Equivalent to the [`-log-format` command-line flag](/docs/commands/server#_log_format).

- `log_file` - Equivalent to the [`-log-file` command-line flag](/docs/commands/server#_log_file).

- `log_rotate_duration` - Equivalent to the [`-log-rotate-duration` command-line flag](/docs/commands/server#_log_rotate_duration).

- `log_rotate_bytes` - Equivalent to the [`-log-rotate-bytes` command-line flag](/docs/commands/server#_log_rotate_bytes).

- `log_rotate_max_files` - Equivalent to the [`-log-rotate-max-files` command-line flag](/docs/commands/server#_log_rotate_max_files).

- `imprecise_lease_role_tracking` `(bool: "false")` - Skip lease counting by role if there are no role based quotas enabled.
  When `imprecise_lease_role_tracking` is set to true and a new role-based quota is enabled, subsequent lease counts start from 0.
  `imprecise_lease_role_tracking` affects role-based lease count quotas, but reduces latencies when not using role based quotas.

### High Availability parameters

The following parameters are used on backends that support [High Availability][high-availability].

- `api_addr` `(string: "")` – Specifies the address (full URL) to advertise to
  other OpenBao servers in the cluster for client redirection. This value is also
  used for [plugin backends][plugins]. This can also be provided via the
  environment variable `VAULT_API_ADDR`. In general this should be set as a full
  URL that points to the value of the [`listener`](#listener) address.
  This can be dynamically defined with a
  [go-sockaddr template](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/go-sockaddr/template)
  that is resolved at runtime.

- `cluster_addr` `(string: "")` – Specifies the address to advertise to other
  OpenBao servers in the cluster for request forwarding. This can also be provided
  via the environment variable `VAULT_CLUSTER_ADDR`. This is a full URL, like
  `api_addr`, but OpenBao will ignore the scheme (all cluster members always
  use TLS with a private key/certificate).
  This can be dynamically defined with a
  [go-sockaddr template](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/go-sockaddr/template)
  that is resolved at runtime.

- `disable_clustering` `(bool: false)` – Specifies whether clustering features
  such as request forwarding are enabled. Setting this to true on one OpenBao node
  will disable these features _only when that node is the active node_. This
  parameter cannot be set to `true` if `raft` is the storage type.

[storage-backend]: /docs/configuration/storage
[listener]: /docs/configuration/listener
[seal]: /docs/configuration/seal
[telemetry]: /docs/configuration/telemetry
[initialize]: /docs/configuration/self-init
[sentinel]: /docs/configuration/sentinel
[high-availability]: /docs/concepts/ha
[plugins]: /docs/plugins

Commit message:

Add docs on new audit mount config options (#1636)
* Add docs on new audit mount config options

Signed-off-by: Jonas Köhnen <jonas.koehnen@sap.com>

* Clarify how allow_audit_log_prefixing is applied

Signed-off-by: Jonas Köhnen <jonas.koehnen@sap.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Jonas Köhnen <jonas.koehnen@sap.com>
Signed-off-by: Geoff Wilson <geoff@gr-oss.io>

website/content/docs/configuration/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
description: OpenBao server configuration reference.
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# OpenBao configuration

Outside of development mode, OpenBao servers are configured using a file.
The format of this file is [HCL](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl) or JSON;
it may also be a directory of configuration files; all files which end in
`.hcl` or `.json` are loaded in alphabetical order; if duplicate content is
present across multiple configuration files and the type of the top-level entry
is not a list, the last present option wins. Otherwise, list types like
listeners, of which multiple may be present, are appended to the config.

@include 'plugin-file-permissions-check.mdx'

An example configuration is shown below:

<Tabs groupId="config">
<TabItem value="JSON">

```json
{
  "ui": true,

  "cluster_addr": "https://127.0.0.1:8201",
  "api_addr":     "https://127.0.0.1:8200",

  "storage": {
    "raft": {
      "path": "data",
      "node_id": "raft_node_1"
    }
  },

  "listener": [
    {
      "tcp": {
        "address":       "127.0.0.1:8200",
        "tls_cert_file": "full-chain.pem",
        "tls_key_file":  "private-key.pem"
      }
    }
  ],

  "telemetry": {
    "statsite_address": "127.0.0.1:8125",
    "disable_hostname": true
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="HCL">

```hcl
ui            = true
cluster_addr  = "https://127.0.0.1:8201"
api_addr      = "https://127.0.0.1:8200"

storage "raft" {
  path = "/path/to/raft/data"
  node_id = "raft_node_1"
}

listener "tcp" {
  address       = "127.0.0.1:8200"
  tls_cert_file = "/path/to/full-chain.pem"
  tls_key_file  = "/path/to/private-key.pem"
}

telemetry {
  statsite_address = "127.0.0.1:8125"
  disable_hostname = true
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

After the configuration is written, use the `-config` flag with `bao server`
to specify where the configuration is.

## Parameters

- `storage` `([StorageBackend][storage-backend]: <required>)` –
  Configures the storage backend where OpenBao data is stored. Please see the
  [storage backends documentation][storage-backend] for the full list of
  available storage backends. Running OpenBao in HA mode would require
  coordination semantics to be supported by the backend. If the storage backend
  supports HA coordination, HA backend options can also be specified in this
  parameter block. If not, a separate `ha_storage` parameter should be
  configured with a backend that supports HA, along with corresponding HA
  options.

- `ha_storage` `([StorageBackend][storage-backend]: nil)` – Configures
  the storage backend where OpenBao HA coordination will take place. This must be
  an HA-supporting backend. If not set, HA will be attempted on the backend
  given in the `storage` parameter. This parameter is not required if the
  storage backend supports HA coordination and if HA specific options are
  already specified with `storage` parameter.

- `listener` `([Listener][listener]: <required>)` – Configures how
  OpenBao is listening for API requests.

- `user_lockout` `([UserLockout][user-lockout]: nil)` –
  Configures the user-lockout behaviour for failed logins. For more information, please see the
  [user lockout configuration documentation](/docs/configuration/user-lockout). 

- `seal` `([Seal][seal]: nil)` – Configures the seal type to use for
  auto-unsealing, as well as for
  [seal wrapping][sealwrap] as an additional layer of data protection.

- `cluster_name` `(string: <generated>)` – Specifies the identifier for the
  OpenBao cluster. If omitted, OpenBao will generate a value.

- `cache_size` `(string: "131072")` – Specifies the size of the read cache used
  by the physical storage subsystem. The value is in number of entries, so the
  total cache size depends on the size of stored entries.

- `disable_cache` `(bool: false)` – Disables all caches within OpenBao, including
  the read cache used by the physical storage subsystem. This will very
  significantly impact performance.

- `initialize` `([Initialize][initialize]: <none>)` – Specifies one-time
  declarative self-initialization.

- `plugin_directory` `(string: "")` – A directory from which plugins are
  allowed to be loaded. OpenBao must have permission to read files in this
  directory to successfully load plugins, and the value cannot be a symbolic link.

  @include 'plugin-file-permissions-check.mdx'

- `plugin_file_uid` `(integer: 0)` – Uid of the plugin directories and plugin binaries if they
  are owned by an user other than the user running OpenBao. This only needs to be set if the
  file permissions check is enabled via the environment variable `VAULT_ENABLE_FILE_PERMISSIONS_CHECK`.

- `plugin_file_permissions` `(string: "")` – Octal permission string of the plugin
  directories and plugin binaries if they have write or execute permissions for group or others.
  This only needs to be set if the file permissions check is enabled via the environment variable
  `VAULT_ENABLE_FILE_PERMISSIONS_CHECK`.

- `telemetry` `([Telemetry][telemetry]: <none>)` – Specifies the telemetry
  reporting system.

- `default_lease_ttl` `(string: "768h")` – Specifies the default lease duration
  for tokens and secrets. This is specified using a label suffix like `"30s"` or
  `"1h"`. This value cannot be larger than `max_lease_ttl`.

- `max_lease_ttl` `(string: "768h")` – Specifies the maximum possible lease
  duration for tokens and secrets. This is specified using a label
  suffix like `"30s"` or `"1h"`. Individual mounts can override this value
  by tuning the mount with the `max-lease-ttl` flag of the
  [auth](/docs/commands/auth/tune#max-lease-ttl) or
  [secret](/docs/commands/secrets/tune#max-lease-ttl) commands.

- `default_max_request_duration` `(string: "90s")` – Specifies the default
  maximum request duration allowed before OpenBao cancels the request. This can
  be overridden per listener via the `max_request_duration` value.

- `detect_deadlocks` `(string: "")` - A comma separated string that specifies the internal 
mutex locks that should be monitored for potential deadlocks. Currently supported values 
include `statelock`, `quotas` and `expiration` which will cause "POTENTIAL DEADLOCK:"
to be logged when an attempt at a core state lock appears to be deadlocked. Enabling this 
can have a negative effect on performance due to the tracking of each lock attempt.

- `raw_storage_endpoint` `(bool: false)` – Enables the `sys/raw` endpoint which
  allows the decryption/encryption of raw data into and out of the security
  barrier. This is a highly privileged endpoint.

- `introspection_endpoint` `(bool: false)` - Enables the `sys/internal/inspect` endpoint
  which allows users with a root token or sudo privileges to inspect certain subsystems inside OpenBao.

- `ui` `(bool: false)` – Enables the built-in web UI, which is available on all
  listeners (address + port) at the `/ui` path. Browsers accessing the standard
  OpenBao API address will automatically redirect there. This can also be provided
  via the environment variable `VAULT_UI`. For more information, please see the
  [ui configuration documentation](/docs/configuration/ui).

- `pid_file` `(string: "")` - Path to the file in which the OpenBao server's
  Process ID (PID) should be stored.

- `enable_response_header_hostname` `(bool: false)` - Enables the addition of an HTTP header
  in all of OpenBao's HTTP responses: `X-Vault-Hostname`. This will contain the
  host name of the OpenBao node that serviced the HTTP request. This information
  is best effort and is not guaranteed to be present. If this configuration
  option is enabled and the `X-Vault-Hostname` header is not present in a response,
  it means there was some kind of error retrieving the host name from the
  operating system.

- `enable_response_header_raft_node_id` `(bool: false)` - Enables the addition of an HTTP header
  in all of OpenBao's HTTP responses: `X-Vault-Raft-Node-ID`. If OpenBao is participating
  in a Raft cluster (i.e. using integrated Storage), this header will contain the
  Raft node ID of the OpenBao node that serviced the HTTP request. If OpenBao is not
  participating in a Raft cluster, this header will be omitted, whether this configuration
  option is enabled or not.

- `log_level` `(string: "info")` - Log verbosity level.
  Supported values (in order of descending detail) are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, and `error`.
  This can also be specified via the `BAO_LOG_LEVEL` environment variable.

:::warning

 Note: On SIGHUP (`sudo kill -s HUP` _pid of bao_), if a valid value is specified, OpenBao will update the existing log level,
  overriding (even if specified) both the CLI flag and environment variable.

:::

:::warning

 Note: Not all parts of OpenBao's logging can have its log level be changed dynamically this way; in particular,
  secrets/auth plugins are currently not updated dynamically.

:::

- `log_format` - Equivalent to the [`-log-format` command-line flag](/docs/commands/server#_log_format).

- `log_file` - Equivalent to the [`-log-file` command-line flag](/docs/commands/server#_log_file).

- `log_rotate_duration` - Equivalent to the [`-log-rotate-duration` command-line flag](/docs/commands/server#_log_rotate_duration).

- `log_rotate_bytes` - Equivalent to the [`-log-rotate-bytes` command-line flag](/docs/commands/server#_log_rotate_bytes).

- `log_rotate_max_files` - Equivalent to the [`-log-rotate-max-files` command-line flag](/docs/commands/server#_log_rotate_max_files).

- `imprecise_lease_role_tracking` `(bool: false)` - Skip lease counting by role if there are no role based quotas enabled.
  When `imprecise_lease_role_tracking` is set to true and a new role-based quota is enabled, subsequent lease counts start from 0.
  `imprecise_lease_role_tracking` affects role-based lease count quotas, but reduces latencies when not using role based quotas.

- `unsafe_allow_api_audit_creation` `(bool: false)` - Allow creating [audit devices](/docs/audit)
  via the API. It is recommended to enable this option only temporarily when
  needed. This option can be toggled at runtime by reloading the configuration
  via SIGHUP.

- `allow_audit_log_prefixing` `(bool: false)` - Allow creating [audit devices](/docs/audit)
  that use the [`prefix` option](/docs/audit#common-configuration-options). Just
  like the above option, this one is best toggled only temporarily to enable the
  desired audit device.

### High Availability parameters

The following parameters are used on backends that support [High Availability][high-availability].

- `api_addr` `(string: "")` – Specifies the address (full URL) to advertise to
  other OpenBao servers in the cluster for client redirection. This value is also
  used for [plugin backends][plugins]. This can also be provided via the
  environment variable `VAULT_API_ADDR`. In general this should be set as a full
  URL that points to the value of the [`listener`](#listener) address.
  This can be dynamically defined with a
  [go-sockaddr template](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/go-sockaddr/template)
  that is resolved at runtime.

- `cluster_addr` `(string: "")` – Specifies the address to advertise to other
  OpenBao servers in the cluster for request forwarding. This can also be provided
  via the environment variable `VAULT_CLUSTER_ADDR`. This is a full URL, like
  `api_addr`, but OpenBao will ignore the scheme (all cluster members always
  use TLS with a private key/certificate).
  This can be dynamically defined with a
  [go-sockaddr template](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/go-sockaddr/template)
  that is resolved at runtime.

- `disable_clustering` `(bool: false)` – Specifies whether clustering features
  such as request forwarding are enabled. Setting this to true on one OpenBao node
  will disable these features _only when that node is the active node_. This
  parameter cannot be set to `true` if `raft` is the storage type.

[storage-backend]: /docs/configuration/storage
[listener]: /docs/configuration/listener
[seal]: /docs/configuration/seal
[telemetry]: /docs/configuration/telemetry
[initialize]: /docs/configuration/self-init
[sentinel]: /docs/configuration/sentinel
[high-availability]: /docs/concepts/ha
[plugins]: /docs/plugins
